
                          Transcriber’s Notes

Obvious typographical errors have been silently corrected. Variations
in hyphenation and all other spelling and punctuation remains unchanged.

Italics are represented thus _italic_, and bold thus =bold=.




                         VOL. I         NO. 1

                                  THE
                                 STORY
                               TELLERS’
                               MAGAZINE

                                 JUNE

                            [Illustration]

                           PVBLISHED BY THE
                             STORYTELLERS
                         COMPANY      NEW YORK




                      THE STORYTELLERS’ MAGAZINE

                       RICHARD T. WYCHE, Editor


                               CONTENTS                            PAGE

  NIMMY NIMMY NOT. Retold                                              1
  by Emelyn Newcombe Partridge and George Everett Partridge, Ph.D.

  THE TAILEYPO                                                         7
  by Richard T. Wyche

  JOHNNY CAKE. Retold                                                 10
  by Frank E. Spaulding and Catherine T. Bryce

  THE TWELVE MONTHS. Retold                                           13
  by R. T. Wyche

  STORY TELLING AND EDUCATION                                         19
  by George Everett Partridge, Ph.D.

  STORY TELLING IN BOSTON                                             24
  by Mary W. Cronan

  THE STONE LION. Retold                                              26
  by Emelyn Newcombe Partridge and George Everett Partridge, Ph.D.

  THE OYSTER AND ITS CLAIMANTS                                        29
  from La Fontaine’s Æsop’s Fables

  THE PSYCHO-THERAPEUTIC VALUE OF STORY TELLING                       30
  by Frances E. Foote

  STORY TELLING FOR MOTHERS                                           32

  THE BEOWULF CLUB OF WEST VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY                        34
  by John Harrington Cox

  HOW TO ORGANIZE A STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE                             35

  WHAT THE LEAGUES ARE DOING                                          36

  EDITORIAL                                                           37

  THE MOTHER—THE CHILD—THE STORY                                    39

  THE GREAT EPICS—STORY HOUR CYCLE                                   40

  SOME RECENT BOOKS                                                   42

  BIBLIOGRAPHY                                                        44

  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUES                                              51

  BUSINESS DEPARTMENT                                                 55


                           Published Monthly
                  at 27 West 23d St., New York, N. Y.

                                  BY
                         THE STORYTELLERS’ CO.

R. T. WYCHE, _Pres._ E. C. DE VILLAVERDE, _Sec’y_ H. D. NEWSON, _Treas._
                  Address, 27 West 23d Street, N. Y.

         Subscription $1.00 per Year        10 cents the Copy
              _Copyright 1913, by The Storytellers’ Co._


[Illustration: And by the vision splendid is on his way attended
               WORDSWORTH]




                      THE STORYTELLERS’ MAGAZINE

      VOL. I         ∴         JUNE, 1913        ∴         NO. 1


                            Nimmy Nimmy Not

                         An English Fairy-tale

      Retold from _English Folk and Fairy Tales_—Camelot Series

 This story is built upon the lines of a perfect dramatic unit, as set
 forth by Freytag in his “Technik des Dramas”—(1) _Exposition._ Facts
 preceding the principal interest, i. e. the girl and her mother,
 etc. (2) _Ascending Action._ The coming of the king. The task. The
 development of the plot. (3) _The Climax._ This is the revelation of
 the name by the king, followed by the _Supreme Moment_ which was the
 revelation of the proper name to Nimmy Nimmy Not. (4) _Descending
 Action._ The disposal of the villain through his “shrivelling up” and
 “flying away.” (5) _Conclusion._ “Living happy ever after.”

 Joseph Jacobs in his “English Fairy Stories” gives us the following
 information in regard to the story: “Unearthed by Mr. E. Clodd,
 from the Suffolk Notes and Queries of the _Ipswitch Journal_, and
 re-printed by him in _Folk-Lore Journal_ vii. 138-43. It has its
 parallels in Devonshire’s as “Duffy and the Devil,” in Hunt’s
 _Romances and Drolls of the West of England_, 239-47; in Scotland two
 variants are given by Chambers, “In _Popular Rhymes of Scotland_.” It
 is clearly the same as Grimm’s “Rumpelstiltskin” (No. 14).

 Mr. Clodd sees in the class of name-guessing stories, a “survival”
 of the superstition that to know a man’s name gives you power over
 him, for which reason savages object to tell their names. It may be
 necessary—to explain to the little one, that Tom Tit can only be
 referred to as “That” because his name is not known until the end.

 The version of the story here given is republished by permission from
 “Story Telling in School and Home,” by Evelyn Newcombe Partridge and
 George Everett Partridge, Ph. D., New York. Sturgis & Walton Co.

 The illustrations for the story are reproduced from “English Fairy
 Stories,” through the courtesy of the author Joseph Jacobs and the
 publishers Messrs. G. P. Putnam’s Sons, New York.


Once upon a time there was a woman, and she baked five pies. And when
she took them from the oven, she found that they had baked so long the
crusts were too hard to eat. So she said to her daughter:

“Put you them there pies on the shelf, and by and by they’ll come
again.” She meant, you know, the crust would get soft.

The girl, she took the pies into the pantry, and she put them upon the
shelf in a long even row. She looked at them, and she thought how good
they would taste.

“Well, if them there pies’ll come again,” she said to herself, “I may
as well eat them now.”

So she _ate them all, first and last_!

Come supper time, the woman said:

“Go you and get one of them there pies, I dare say they’ve come again
by this time.”

The daughter she went into the pantry, and she looked at the shelf.
There were the five pie plates _just as she had left them,—empty_! So
she went back to her mother and she said:

“Noo, they ain’t come again.”

“Not one of them?” said the mother.

“Noo, not one of them,” says she.

“Well, come again or not come again, I’ll have one for my supper.” And
the old woman went toward the pantry.

“But you can’t have one, if they ain’t come again, mother.”

“But I can,” the woman declared. “I’ll have the best one for my supper.”

“Best or worst,” the daughter said, “_I’ve ate them all!_ And you can’t
have one ’til they’ve come again!”

Well, the woman, she was so astonished she forgot all about supper. She
carried her spinning to the doorway, and as she span, she sang a little
song about her daughter:

    “My daughter has ate five, _five_ pies today,
    My daughter has ate five, _five_ pies today!”

Now the king was coming down the road, and he heard the woman singing,
but he could not hear the words. So he stopped in front of the door and
said:

“My good woman, what were you singing?”

Now the old woman did not want anyone to know what a greedy daughter
she had; so she sang instead of that,

    “My daughter has spun five, _five skeins_ today.”

“Land sakes alive!” said the king, “I never heard tell of anyone’s
doing that. Now look you here, my good woman. I _want a wife_, and I’ll
marry your daughter. But look you here. For eleven months of the year
she shall have all the victuals she wants to eat, and all the clothes
she wants to wear, and all the company she likes to keep. _But the
twelfth month, she must spin five skeins every day, or off’ll go her
head!_”

“All right,” says the woman, for she thought:

“What a grand marriage this will be. And as for them there five skeins,
by that time he’ll forget all about them.”

So they were married. And for eleven months the girl had all the
victuals she wanted to eat, and she had all the clothes she wanted to
get, and she had all the company she liked to keep. But sometimes she
felt a little uneasy. _Sometimes_ she thought of that spinning she must
do.

The king, he never said one word about the five skeins, so as the
eleven months had nearly passed, the girl thought that he had forgotten
all about it.

But one day, it was the _last day of the eleventh month_! The king came
to her, and he took her into a little room she had never seen before.
There was nothing in it but a spinning wheel and a little chair and a
small bare table.

“Here, my girl,” says he, “here I’ll put you tomorrow. And I’ll lock
the door. And here you must stay all day long. At night I’ll come, and
if you’ve not spun the five skeins, _off’ll go your head_!” And away he
went about his business.

Well, the girl was that frightened! She had always been such a gatless
creature that _she didn’t even know how to spin_! She sat down on a
stool and she began to cry. _How she did cry!_

[Illustration: The little black thing]

However, _all of a sudden_ she heard a knocking, knocking, low down at
the door. She got up and she opened the door. _There stood a little
black thing_, WITH A LONG BLACK TAIL. And That looked up at her out of
the corner of That’s eyes, and That says:

“What are you crying for?”

“What’s that to you?” says she.

“Never you mind, but tell me what you are crying for. Perhaps I can
help you,” the little black thing told her.

“Well, it can’t do any harm, if it doesn’t do any good,” she thought.
So she told him all about the five pies, and the five skeins and
everything.

“This is what I’ll do,” says that little black thing, twirling his BIG
BLACK TAIL. “I’ll come to your window every morning and get the flax,
and at night I’ll bring it home all spun.”

“What’s your pay?” says she.

_That_ looked at her again out of the corner of _That’s_ eyes. “I’ll
give you three guesses every night to guess my name, and if you haven’t
guessed it by the last night, _you shall be_ MINE!”

The girl thought that she would be sure to guess it before the month
was up, so she said:

“All right.”

“All right,” That says, and _how That did twirl That’s tail_!

Well, the next day, the king took her into the room, and there was the
flax, and the day’s supply of victuals.

“Now, my dear,” says he, “if that ain’t spun by night, _off’ll go your
head_.” Then he went out and locked the door behind him.

The king had no sooner gone, than a _knock,—knock_ came at the window.
There was the little black thing sitting on the window ledge. She gave
him the flax and away he flew.

Well, at evening, the knocking came again at the window. The girl
opened it, and there stood the little black thing with the flax on his
arm, all beautifully spun.

“Here it is,” he said, as he gave it to her. “Now, what’s my name?”

“Is that Bill?” says she.

“Noo, that ain’t,” says he, and he twirled his tail.

“Is that Ned, then?”

“Noo, that ain’t.”

“Well, is that Mark, then?” she asked.

“Noo.” And That twirled That’s tail harder and away That flew.

When the king came in, there were the skeins beautifully spun.

“Well, I see, my dear, that you won’t lose your head tonight.” And he
went away and left her locked in the room.

So every day the flax and the food were brought to the girl. And every
morning the little black imp would knock at the window and carry away
the flax, and every night it would bring back the flax spun. And every
night the girl would try the three times to guess the imp’s name, but
she could never guess the right one.

At last, the last day had come. And that night when the imp brought
back the skeins, he said:

“What, ain’t you guessed my name yet?”

“Is that Nicodemas?” says she.

“Noo, that ain’t,” That says.

“Is that Samuel?”

“Noo, not that neither.” Then That looked at her with That’s eyes _like
coals of fire_, and That says:

“Woman, there’s only _tomorrow night_, and THEN YOU’LL BE MINE!” And
away That flew.

Well, the girl she felt that bad. However, she heard the king coming
along the passage. In he came, and when he saw the five skeins, he said:

“My dear, I don’t see but you’ll have your skeins ready tomorrow night
as well, so I reckon I shall not have to kill you, and I’ll have supper
in here tonight.”

So they brought the supper in, and the two sat down to the table.

Well, he had eaten but a mouthful, when he began to laugh.

“What are you laughing at?” the girl asked him.

“Well, today when I was out in the forest, I saw the funniest sight....
I was in a strange part where I had never been before. And I saw an
old chalk pit.... And I heard the queerest humming and humming coming
from the pit. So I got off my hobby and crept over to the pit without
making a bit of a sound. And there I saw the strangest looking little
black thing with a long, black tail. And That was sitting at a little
spinning wheel, and That was spinning so fast that I could scarcely see
the wheel. And while That span, That sang,

    “Nimmy, nimmy not,
    My name is Tom Tit Tot.”

“And That kept singing it over again and again.”

When the girl heard this, she was so happy that she could almost have
_jumped out of her skin for joy_, but she didn’t say a word.

Next day, that little black thing looked _so maliceful_! And when night
came she heard the knock at the window, she opened it, and the little
black thing jumped into the room. He was grinning from ear to ear, and
O! That’s tail was twirling round so fast!

“What’s my name?” That said, as That gave her the skeins.

“Is that Solomon?” said the girl, pretending to be afraid.

“Noo, that ain’t,” That said, and That came further into the room.

“Well, is that Zebedee?” says she again.

“Noo, that ain’t.” And then That laughed, and twirled That’s tail until
you could hardly see That.

“Take time, woman! The next guess AND YOU ARE MINE!” And That stretched
out That’s black hands at her.

[Illustration]

Well, she moved back a step or two, and she looked at that little black
thing, and then she laughed out, and says she, pointing her finger at
it,

    “Nimmy, nimmy not,
    Your name is Tom Tit Tot.”

When that black impet heard her, That _shriveled right up_, and away
That flew and was never heard of again.

And the girl lived happily ever after, and the king never again asked
her to do any more spinning.




                             The Taileypo

                         _BY RICHARD T. WYCHE_


 The Taileypo story was told to me by the Rev. George Washington Neale,
 a student friend of mine, years ago, in Chicago University. Mr. Neale
 said that he had heard the story many times in his childhood, from the
 lips of the old negro story tellers in Tennessee. This story has its
 variant in the story of “The Golden Arm,” which was written by Mark
 Twain, Joseph Jacobs and also in a collection by S. Baring-Gould.

 It is a story that loses much in the writing, as it is impossible to
 give voice modulation in cold print. After hearing Mr. Neale tell it
 a number of years ago, in Chicago, I took it up and began to tell it,
 and found many people in the South, who had heard the old negroes tell
 it.

 In January 1905, I was in Atlanta, Ga., and went with Joel Chandler
 Harris, the author of “Uncle Remus,” to the West End School, where I
 told a number of Uncle Remus stories to the children. Beginning in the
 first grade, where Mr. Harris’s little grandson was then a pupil and
 ending in the higher grades, where I told The Taileypo story. When the
 story was done, Mr. Harris said it was one of the best negro stories
 he had heard, but that I did not have all of the story. There was, he
 said, another piece of the story that should be linked with this to
 make it complete, and I said to Mr. Harris: “Find the other piece, and
 write the story complete.”

 One year after that Harris published the story in the Metropolitan
 Magazine, New York, January 1906. Harris gave it a setting and
 artistic atmosphere, bringing in Brer’ Rabbit and Mister Man. He put
 it in the mouth of Uncle Remus, and had the old negro, as in his other
 books, tell the story to the little boy. That was a demonstration to
 me as to how Harris took many of the negro stories in the raw, and
 passing them through the magic of his imagination made them into art.

 We are frequently puzzled to find humorous stories for the boys and
 girls,—they must have humor. This story has universally amused them
 wherever it has been told. In it reverberates the barbaric ages from
 whence the race came, and it is a spontaneous expression of life
 from the primitive standpoint. To find a story that the boys and
 girls think humorous, and to laugh together with them, is decidedly
 refreshing and healthful to the teacher, who has dwelt so much on
 grammatical forms which are not fundamental in a child’s interest. As
 Joseph Jacobs, says, “The children know the happenings in the story
 are make-believe just as much as the spectators of a tragedy. Every
 one who has enjoyed the blessing of a romantic imagination has been
 trained upon such tales of wonder.”

 However, if one’s imagination and sense of humor is undeveloped, and
 the story is taken seriously rather than humorously, it loses its
 value and should not be told. For that reason the story teller or
 teacher must study his auditors.

 As Uncle Remus would say, I will “’gin it out to you as it was ’gunt
 to me.”


In the mountains of Tennessee, ’way back in de big woods, lived onct a
man, in a house all by his self. This man had one room to his house,
and dat room was his kitchen.

One night, when de man was sleepin on his bed, he heerd sup’ner roun
de fire place snifflin, lickin de pots, de fryinpans, and de skillets,
car’en on and g’wyin on. De man struk a light, and dar he see de
curioses lookin varmint what you ever laid eyes on, a varmint wid a
great, long tail. No sooner de man see de varmint dan he retched for
his hatchet. He made one sweep at him, and clipped his tail squar off
behime. De varmint he run out thu de cracks er de logs and tuk to de
woods.

De man, fool-lik, took an cooked de tail, et it,—and den he went to
bed. ’Way long in de night, suppen cum and got up over de man’s do, and
scratched and sed:

“Taileypo, I want’s my ta-a-a-a-a-a-iley-po.”

De man had three dogs: one name Uno, and one Ino, and one
Cumticocalico. De man call his dogs, “Yer! Yer! Yer!”

De dogs dey cum bilin out frum under de house. De varmint he run down
side de house and jumped. De dogs snapped at him, but he got away, and
dey run’ed him and run’ed him ’way back in de big woods. De man he tuk,
he did and went back to bed, and went to sleep.

But ’way long in de night, de thing cum and got up in de crac’ er de
man’s do and sed:

“Taileypo, you know,—I know,—all I want’s my Ta-a-a-a-a-a-iley-po.”

De man call his dogs, “Yer! Yer! Yer!”

Uno, Ino and Cumticocalico cum abustin roun de cordner of de house. De
varmint jumped down from de side of de house and tuk to de woods. De
dogs ketch him at de gate,—knock down de gate an tore down de fence.
He got away, but dey jus’ natchally tore up de earth runnin him ’way
frum dar. De man tuk, he did and went back to bed and went to sleep.

’Way long in de night, jus befo day, de man he heard sup’ner down de
hill, sayin:

“Uno, Ino, all I want’s my Ta-a-a-a-a-a-iley-po.”

By and by he heard him in de crack up over de do, sayin:

“Taileypo, I want’s my Ta-a-a-a-a-a-iley-po.”

De man call de dogs, “Yer! Yer! Yer!”

De dogs didn’t cum: de Taileypo dun car’ed em off sumeres in de woods,
lost em or kil’t em.

Arter a while—de Taileypo stop. Everything was still. De man drapped
back on his pillow, but fo long he feel supen and heard supen scratchin
and clawin at de foot of de bed. Supen ketch holt er de kivers, and
clawed lak a cat a’climin up. De man rais his haid up and look, and
he see two bright eyes, lak balls er fire, lookin right pine blank at
him frum de foot er de bed. De varmint crawl up nigher and nigher on
de man. He can see his little short ’years by de light er his eyes. De
varmint say right easy to de man again:

“Taileypo—I want my te-e-e-e-e-e-eley-po!”

De man try to holler. He opens his mouf, but lak a man in his sleep, he
ca’nt mak a soun’. De varmint crawl right up on top er de man and say
right easy again: “Taileypo.”

“I want’s my te-e-e-e-e-e-eley-po!”

De man’s voice cum back to him, and he say:

“I aint got your taileypo.”

De varmint says, “Yes, you is.”

He jumped on de man and scratch him all to pieces, and got his taileypo.

All dat’s lef of de man’s house now is de rude heart-stone, and dey say
dat when de moon rises roun and red and shines down dat lonely hollow,
and de win’ blow, dat you can hear a voice in de win’ day say:

“Tail-a-a-a-a-a-e-eley-po-o-o-o!” and die in de distance.




                           Once Upon a Time


Every now and then the postman leaves at the office of THE EVENING SUN
a message that brims over with pleasure for the recipient. Among such
communications we gratefully acknowledge the following, addressed to us
by a young friend in the South:

  “DURHAM N. C. March 29.

 ”DEAR EDITOR—I like the Once upon a time stories very much pleas make
 them a little longer Father reads them to me after Supper. do you tell
 them to your little boy or girl with love Lucy Glasson Mary likes them
 to”

Time was, LUCY, when we told some of these stories to our little boy
and girl at bedtime, and now, years afterwards, we are glad to think
that we can tell them over to thousands of other people’s little boys
and girls. If only they will think of us occasionally as LUCY GLASSON
does, “with love,” how rich will be our reward. _N.Y. Evening Sun._

       *       *       *       *       *

North Carolina has recently organized a Folk-Lore Society, which will
be a branch of the National Folk-Lore Society.




[Illustration: Domestic scene]


                              Johnny Cake


 Mr. Joseph Jacobs publishes this story in his Collection of
 “English Fairy Tales.” He gives as his source “_American Journal of
 Folk-Lore_,” ii. 60. Another variant of this story is found in “The
 Gingerbread Boy,” in _St. Nicholas_, May, 1875. Chambers gives two
 versions of the same story, under the title “The Wee Bunnock,” the
 first of which is one of the most dramatic and humorous of folk tales.
 Unfortunately the Scotticisms are so frequent as to render the Droll
 practically untranslatable. “The Fate of Mr. Jack Sparrow” in _Uncle
 Remus_ is similar to that of Johnny Cake.

 The version herewith is taken from the Aldine Fourth Reader, by Frank
 E. Spaulding and Catherine T. Bryce, through the courtesy of the
 publishers, Newson & Company, New York.


Once upon a time there was an old man, and an old woman, and a little
boy. One morning the old woman made a Johnny Cake, and put it into the
oven to bake.

Then she said to the little boy: “You watch Johnny Cake while your
father and I go out to work in the garden. Don’t let it burn.”

The little boy soon got tired watching the oven, and went to look out
of the window. All of a sudden he heard a noise back of him. He looked
around quickly. The oven door popped open. Out jumped Johnny Cake. Away
he went rolling along, end over end, through the open door, down the
steps, and out into the road, long before the little boy could catch
him.

“Mother! Father! Johnny Cake’s running away!” cried the little boy, and
down the street he ran after Johnny Cake.


[Illustration:woman running]

His father and mother threw down their hoes and gave chase too. But
Johnny Cake outran all three a long way, and was soon out of sight. The
old man, the old woman, and the little boy, quite out of breath, sat
down by the roadside to rest.

On ran Johnny Cake. By and by he came to two well diggers, who looked
up from their work and called out, “Where are you going Johnny?”

“I’ve outrun an old man, an old woman, and a little boy, and I can
outrun you, too-o-o!”

“You can, can you? We’ll see about that!”

They threw down their spades and ran after him. But Johnny Cake
outstripped them also. Seeing they could never catch him, they gave up.

On ran Johnny Cake. By and by he came to a bear.

“Where are you going Johnny?” growled the bear.

“I’ve outrun an old man, an old woman, a little boy, and two well
diggers, and I can outrun you, too-o-o!”

“You can, can you?” growled the bear; “we’ll see about that!”

[Illustration: Boy running]

And he rushed thump, thump, after Johnny Cake, who never stopped to
look behind him. Before long the bear was left far behind, so at last,
breathless and panting, he stretched himself out by the roadside to
rest.

On ran Johnny Cake. By and by he came to a wolf. “Where are you going,
Johnny Cake?” yelped the wolf.

“I’ve outrun an old man, an old woman, a little boy, two well diggers,
and a bear, and I can outrun you, too-o-o!”

“You can, can you?” snarled the wolf; “we’ll see about that!”

And he set into a gallop after Johnny Cake, who went on so fast that
the wolf saw there was no hope of overtaking him, and he, too, lay down
to rest.

On ran Johnny Cake. By and by he came to a fox that lay quietly in a
corner of the fence.

“Where are you going, Johnny Cake?” called the fox, in a sharp voice,
but without getting up.

“I’ve outrun an old man, an old woman, a little boy, two well diggers,
a bear, and a wolf, and I can outrun you, too-o-o!”

“I can’t quite hear you, Johnny Cake; won’t you come a little closer?”
said the fox.

Johnny Cake went a little nearer to the fox and called out in a very
loud voice:

“I’ve outrun an old man, an old woman, a little boy, two well diggers,
a bear, and a wolf, and I can outrun you, too-o-o!”

“Can’t quite hear you; won’t you come a little closer?” said the fox,
in a feeble voice, as he put one paw behind his ear.

[Illustration: Satisfied fox]

Johnny Cake came up quite close, and leaning towards the fox, screamed
out, “I’ve outrun an old man, an old woman, a little boy, two well
diggers, a bear, and a wolf, and I can outrun you, too-o-o!”

“You can, can you?” yelped the fox, and he snapped up Johnny Cake in a
twinkling.




[Illustration:

  The
  Twelve
  Months

  An Oral Re-telling
  _of a_
  BOHEMIAN FAIRY STORY
  _by_
  R. T. WYCHE]


In the Bohemian land there lived a woman, who had one daughter named
Katinka, and a stepdaughter named Dobrunka. The woman, naturally,
loved her own daughter more than she did her stepdaughter, but her own
child was not as fair nor had she as pleasing a disposition as had the
stepdaughter Dobrunka.

This displeased the woman so that she made Dobrunka, the stepdaughter,
do all the housework, the cooking and the churning, whereas, her own
daughter, Katinka, she dressed in fine clothes and let her live in
idleness. And more than that—she frequently allowed Katinka to order
Dobrunka around the house as if she were a servant. Dobrunka was always
pleasing in countenance and in spirit, and the work she did made her
strong and wholesome, whereas the idleness in which Katinka lived made
her very disagreeable.

One day, Katinka came to Dobrunka, and said: “Dobrunka, I want some
violets; go out into the fields or the forest and find me some.”

Dobrunka said, “Why Katinka, that is a strange request. This is not the
time for violets; it is mid-winter.”

Whereupon Katinka grew very angry and said: “Go, do as I say and bring
me some violets, or I shall beat you to a jelly.” With that Katinka
pushed her out of the door and with the help of her mother barred the
door behind her.

Now, it was mid-winter and snow was upon the ground, and Dobrunka
started through the forest not knowing what to do. As she walked along
the forest, she saw on a hillside a fire burning. Soon she came to the
fire, and there sat twelve old men with long grey beards. Their names
were the Twelve Months.

It was mid-winter, and January, of course, was presiding. As Dobrunka
came near to the group, not knowing what to do nor where to go, she
stopped and began to cry.

January saw her, and said: “Child, why do you stand there shivering and
crying, what is the matter?”

Dobrunka said, “My mother and sister have driven me from the house, and
they said if I do not bring them some violets they will beat me to a
jelly.”

January felt sorry for the girl, and he said: “Violets do not belong to
me; perhaps March can help you.”

Near by sat March, and he turned and saw the girl was troubled and he
pitied her.

March stood up and waved his wand over the fire. The fire and the
circle of old men disappeared. March and the girl were standing in a
field and the air was fragrant with the breath of early Spring. March
said, “Daughter look down at your feet, and gather as many violets as
you wish!”

As Dobrunka looked, all about her the field was purple with violets.
She stooped down and gathered a great handful of them.

When she came back to the house and entered the door, Katinka saw her,
and said, “Yes, I knew you could bring them, you were just pretending
that you could not.” And, the perfume of the violets filled the whole
house.

Some days after Katinka came again to Dobrunka, and said:

“Dobrunka, I want some strawberries, red and fresh from the fields.”

[Illustration: “THERE SAT TWELVE OLD MEN”]

Dobrunka said, “Why sister, how strangely you talk. This is not the
time for strawberries; it is mid-winter. But Katinka said: “Obey me,
you said there were no violets the other day; you brought them,—go,
bring me some strawberries or I will beat you to a jelly.”

With that she pushed her out of the door and the stepmother helped her
bar the door.

Dobrunka then turned toward the forest again. Snow was still on the
ground. She walked along toward the mountain and saw again the fire
burning in the distance. Soon she was standing where sat the twelve old
men in a circle.

January heard her footfall on the snow. Dobrunka stopped and began
crying. January said to her, “Child, why did you come back, we gave you
violets and still you are back again?”

Dobrunka said, “My mother and sister have driven me from my home, and
they say if I do not bring some strawberries they will beat me to a
jelly.”

January said: “I am sorry, but I cannot help you. Strawberries do not
belong to me; perhaps May can help you.”

May was sitting across the circle. He looked at the girl standing there
in trouble and he felt sorry for her. He stood up and waved his wand
across the fire. The old men disappeared and the fire. Dobrunka found
herself standing in a field. It was a perfect day in May. Above her
head the sky was soft and blue; in every treetop sang the birds. May,
the old man, stood by her and said:

“Look child at the earth and see what you will find.”

Dobrunka looked, and all about in great bunches grew strawberries,
peeping like jewels from the green leaves.

May said to her, “Help yourself.” And stooping down she gathered her
hands full and then ran back to the house.

When she entered the door, her sister seized the berries and ate them
all up.

A few days after that, Katinka came again to Dobrunka and said:
“Dobrunka, I want some apples, fresh and ripe; go to the forest and
find me some.”

Dobrunka said, “Why sister how strangely you talk,—this is not the
time for apples; it is mid-winter.”

Katinka said, “Lazy girl, you said you could not find the violets, but
you did. You said there were no strawberries, but you brought them; go,
and get me some apples or I will beat you to a jelly.”

Whereupon she pushed her from the door and the stepmother helped her to
bar the door behind her.

Dobrunka turned again to the forest. She remembered where the old men
lived on the mountainside and was soon standing near the circle. She
crept along very quietly. She did not wish to ask the old men to help
her again because they already had been so kind to her, but January saw
her standing with bowed head and shivering in the cold.

He said, “Child, child, why did you come back here? We sent you away
the other day with your wants supplied.”

Then Dobrunka said: “My mother and sister have driven me from the
house, they say if I do not bring them some apples they will beat me to
a jelly.”

January said, “Apples do not belong to me; perhaps September can help
you.”

[Illustration: “ONE DAY THE HANDSOMEST YOUTH IN ALL THE WORLD CAME BY”]

On the opposite side of the circle sat September, and he saw the girl
standing there, helpless. He felt sorry for her and standing up, he
waved his wand over the fire. The circle and the old men disappeared.
They were standing in a gently rolling field. The air was soft; the
crickets were chirping in the grass and there was in the sky a haze.
All around here stood great apple trees, loaded with fruit, red and
yellow.

September said to the girl, “Help yourself.”

Dobrunka picked up two of the largest apples, and then fled back to the
house. When her sister saw her, she seized the apples, ate one and gave
the other to her mother. As soon as the apples were eaten,—she came to
Dobronka, and said, “Why did you not bring more apples?”

Then Dobrunka told her about the old men and how they had helped her
each time.

“Then,” said Katinka, “I know why you did not bring more, you ate them
up on the way. Go back, and bring me more or I will beat you.”

Dobrunka said, “Please do not send me again in the cold,” and she
begged that she might stay in the house.

Then Katinka said, “I will go myself; if you could get them I can get
them from the old men.”

She left the house and walked through the forest, and soon came in
sight of the fire where sat the twelve old men. When she came near to
them, she said, “Hello there, old grey beards, I want some apples and
want them quick!”

January was not accustomed to such words. He stood up and waved his
wand over the fire and the fire and the circle were gone.

Katinka found herself in a great forest. The wind was wailing through
the treetops, the snow was falling and it was bitter cold. Katinka did
not come back to the house. Her mother waited for her and by and by she
started out in search of her, but she, too, was lost in the storm that
raged, and never came back.

Dobrunka waited in the house. The night passed, and the next day and
many days. By and by the snow melted. The birds and flowers of Spring
came, but still the lost ones did not come back. Dobrunka had the house
all alone. One day, the handsomest youth in all the world came by and
met Dobrunka. They became friends, and afterwards they were married and
lived happily forever thereafter.

       *       *       *       *       *

 The Storytellers’ League, of the State Normal School, of Dillon,
 Montana, have decided for the present year to devote their attention
 to a line of work, which so far as we know, has not yet been
 attempted by any other League. They will investigate the part that
 the supernatural, especially witchcraft, plays in literature, and
 will follow it not only through folk literature, but the following
 units: Goethe’s Faust, Shakespeare’s Midsummer Night’s Dream, Macbeth,
 Konigs-kinder and Hansel and Gretel. The general theme will be broken
 from time to time by the introduction of stories suitable for a
 special session. At the last meeting in December the program will be
 given over to Christmas stories, tales and legends. Miss Florence
 Mayer is President of the League.




                      STORY TELLING AND EDUCATION

                 _BY GEORGE EVERETT PARTRIDGE, Ph.D._


The recent revival of story telling raises many interesting questions,
both practical and theoretical. Considered as a part of a larger
movement,—an effort to control and utilize the powers concealed
within the instincts and unconscious forces of the mind—story telling
takes a place in a problem which we can hardly be mistaken in calling
one of the most important of our day. We have tended to value, in
education, only that which we can see and fully understand; but now,
as we begin seriously to employ _arts_ in the school, and in the arts
to subordinate knowledge to feeling, to use methods that yield no
immediate or practical return, we demand an increasing faith in the
powers of receptivity and inner response of the child, and we must
learn more and more to detect, and to be satisfied with, unseen and
remote effects.

In the art-invasion of the school, which is one aspect of this
movement toward a wider education, it is difficult to see how, in the
near future, we can be carried too far. We have been in the habit
of emphasizing so much the learning process, that we are in danger
of preventing the free and experimental attitude toward these new
interests that seems needed at the present time. We are likely to
have too little, rather than too much, faith in the play motives, the
æsthetic moods, and the subconscious powers. We shall still want the
child to _express_, to dramatize, to be examined upon, everything he
receives: to externalize every response, even in the most intimate
regions of feeling.

In calling the influx of artistic elements and methods into the school
one phase of the education of the _unconscious and deeper powers_, we
have a significant practical view-point, and are at the same time
in touch with new results in science. As a practical ideal, we must
aim to educate _all_ the individual, not merely thought and voluntary
movement. We wish to reach the inherited mechanisms of the organism; we
wish to play upon all the potentialities of feeling and volition, and
to utilize powers latent in the deposits of experience that the child
has brought with him to the world.

These new results in science give to the well-worn principle that we
must educate _all_ the powers of the child a new meaning, and at least
three important advances in psychology, in recent years, combine to
put solid ground under our feet for a practical æsthetics, and give us
principles by which we can coördinate the artistic elements and methods
of the school.

The first of these advances is the genetic psychology that has arisen
and flourished on the basis of Darwinian principles in biology, and
which has shown the fundamental place of the feelings in education.
The second is the new psycho-analysis, which, by showing the laws of
the symbolic expression of hidden desires and feelings, has given us
a new conception of the relation of art to life. The third new result
is in the psychology of _valuation_, which has traced out, at least
roughly, the course of development of the æsthetic and ethical states
of consciousness.

New and incomplete and lacking in coördination as these principles
are, they already yield us practical insights such as we have never
been able to obtain from the older philosophies. We may confidently
expect to see in time a solid science of the feelings, which will give
us a “union of art and life” in a sound æstheticism in education: an
æstheticism that will help to organize and control the fundamental
feelings, and will overcome the superficial aloofness of our prevailing
too formal and too detached art. This will be based upon the discovery
that art, and the need of art, extend throughout all phases of human
life; and that all true art must _work_ in intimate union with
practical affairs.

Considerations, such as these, seem essential for any study of the
place of story telling, or any other _art_, in education.


                                  II

The story telling “situation” is an artistic situation. It falls under
the category of the _beautiful_, and is subject to all the general
principles of æsthetics. Thus it stands in striking contrast with
all formal methods of instruction, and all routine and unemotional
learning. In such artistic situations the child is _more fully present_
than in the formal school work, for he brings with him his deeper,
_unconscious_ nature.

The nature of the story as an educational art is best shown by its
place in primitive life. Here the function of the story is clearly
practical. By it religion, and all beliefs, morals, customs, and
traditions are conveyed to the child. The folk-tales, the legends, the
fairy-tales, the epics, and the myths of the world are not _merely_
fanciful inventions of man; in a far more profound way than we yet
fully understand, they express man’s most urgent needs and desires.
Primitive man began early to express, in his stories, by means of
a varied symbolism, his own hopes and wishes,—sometimes, thereby,
keeping them alive through hard conditions, and passing them on to new
generations; sometimes obtaining for them a vicarious satisfaction.
These racial stories affect our feelings deeply, simply because there
is _continuity in evolution_: because the past still lives in the
present: because these stories are the products of universal needs,
and symbolize or represent them. The story is thus a _language of the
feelings_; it is a means of communication between the past and the
unconscious and undeveloped potentialities of the present. The story
is a _symbolic_ language: its scenes and words are often trivial, but
underneath them runs a deeper meaning. Everyone who has told stories
must have felt this. We all know that when we tell a good story to a
child, the child is receiving from us indescribable meanings, which the
story itself conveys, but does not really contain or express,—and this
sense of free-masonry of emotional meaning is the greatest charm of the
story. One who feels this does not need to point a moral to a tale; and
one who feels the need of the moral does not really tell his story.

Without knowing something about the nature of the æsthetic feelings
and moods it is impossible to understand the scope of such an art as
story telling. We are likely to think of æsthetic feeling as passive,
or as merely “refining” in its effects: or, if inspiring, as mainly
affecting the creative, artistic imagination. But this is not the case.
All æsthetic feelings are intensely active. Because the responses are
internal,—a play of forces within the organism—we are likely to
overlook them altogether. In every æsthetic state, we have good reason
to believe, there is a play of volitions, an active choosing, a drama
of aroused and satisfied desire—definite, specific desire, which,
though it may often be unconscious, if none the less real. And it is
because of this drama of desire that æsthetic situations have meaning
and value—educational value.

We cannot at present know,—and as practical educators we do not need
to know—precisely the mechanism or content of every emotional state;
yet we can often see clearly some of the deeper meaning and effect of
æsthetic valuations. We can see sometimes, in the child’s interest in
fairy-tales, for example, that the child is playing a part; that he
is accepting for _himself_ misfortunes for the sake of the good that
issues from them; that he is appreciating, in some half-conscious way,
the nature of a world in which events are not separate and haphazard,
but are connected through far-seeing purposes. The child is not
merely pleased at the story; he reacts to it by taking attitudes:
by accepting, rejecting, deciding; by desiring, and by receiving
satisfaction. In such experiences the child is even acquiring religion,
and the standards and moods of later life are made up of just such
feelings as are conveyed so effectively through the medium of the
artistic story.

The story, then, is an important method in education. It is a very
effective and natural devise for conveying the ideals and volitions
of one generation to the mind of another, and of coördinating many
individuals by means of the common possession of these ideals and
purposes. We have yet to learn fully how far we can go by this and
other kinds of artistry in teaching; but that the story should
have a serious place in education, seems wholly certain. Just how
large a place it should occupy is to be determined, in part, by
experiment. Good story telling may be utilized in so many subjects of
the curriculum, for so many purposes, and in so many departments of
education, within and without the school; its artistic possibilities
are so great; the present momentum of interest is so strong, and so
well justified by science, that we may expect to see a widespread use
of the story as a method of education. We shall expect to see story
telling become a part of the equipment of all teachers, and the story
literature of the world become more and more accessible, and better
adapted to the child. And it is likely that the professional story
teller will again flourish among us, as in the days before books and
schools robbed him of his art.

       *       *       *       *       *

 The Story Tellers’ League, of Nashville, Tenn., issues an attractive
 Year Book for the current year. Among the topics announced for the
 year is a Greek pageant, “The Fire Regained,” to be given out of
 doors at the Parthenon, in Centennial Park. This pageant was written
 by Mr. Sidney Hirsch, a member of the Story Tellers’ League, and
 dedicated to the League. A popular subscription of $10,000 has been
 made by the city for its production. Seats will be arranged for 20,000
 people. The Schools will furnish 800 young men and young women for
 the performance; a herd of sheep and a flock of doves enter into the
 pageant. It will be given five afternoons early in May.




                        STORY TELLING IN BOSTON

                          _BY MARY W. CRONAN_

         Official Story Teller for the Boston Public Libraries


I really felt most delighted at the thought of the new magazine and
want to send an article, but can’t seem to find time to write it.
Perhaps it will answer if I just tell you what is being done in Boston
Libraries and Settlements by Mr. Cronan and myself, and let you choose
such items as seem of interest.

The Library classes are held in the afternoon. On Saturday from three
to four Mr. Cronan and I tell stories in the Central Library. On Monday
I go to Brighton; Tuesday to Jamaica Plain; Wednesday to South Boston;
Thursday the West End; Friday Shawmut Ave. Branch. All these are
Branches of the Central Library. The ages of the children are from ten
to fourteen. The attendance from one to two hundred.

The first part of the hour is devoted to telling the story of some book
which the children have not read and which would be a valuable book
for them to know. As the boys greatly outnumber the girls, the book is
chosen which is likely to appeal to them. I have told in “continued
story” form each book lasting from four to six periods of story telling
the following:

  The Talisman
  Oliver Twist
  Spenser’s “Faerie Queen”
  Water Babies
  Robin Hood
  King Arthur and His Knights
  The Rhinegold
  Siegfried
  Treasure Island
  Captains Courageous
  Peter Pan
  The Bluebird
  Jean Valjean
  The Odyssey
  Finn and his Mighty Deeds
  The Christmas Carol
  Konigs Kinder, etc.

The last twenty minutes of the hour is usually devoted to some story of
fun or fancy—a fairy tale—or Brer’ Rabbit’s pranks. In the evening
similar work is done in Social Settlements with groups of boys from
twelve to fourteen years of age. At Denison House we have ninety-six
boys of Syrian and Irish nationality. There are groups in the Ruggles
Street Neighborhood House—the “South End Industrial School,” Jamaica
Plain Neighborhood House, South End House and Lincoln House.

In the summer story telling groups are held on the roof gardens of the
Settlement House or in the yard where we sit on the grass and tell
stories in the twilight—often to groups of one hundred and fifty
children.

The accompanying newspaper clippings about my work may be of interest:


              INTRODUCES THE CHILD TO THE BEST LITERATURE

 “I do not tell stories to amuse children, but to instruct them. The
 purpose is to introduce the child to the best literature and not to
 entertain him, although he is at the same time entertained.

 “Story telling bridges the gap between the child and the library and
 brings him into literature. It develops the child in every way and
 teaches him what is really worth his while to read.

 “It develops the imagination, trains his mind and he gets many moral
 lessons, although I never tell stories as a means of preaching to
 children.


                       DEVELOPS THE CHILD’S MIND

 “Story telling means far more to children than many people realize.
 The love for stories is born in every child and it takes but a
 remarkably short time before almost every child becomes a really
 wonderful listener.

 “It is interesting to observe how the mind of the child is developed.
 At first, many can keep their attention on a story only a short
 time, but they soon learn the power of application and can listen
 breathlessly for an hour and then ask for another story, even though
 they know the time is up. After their attention has once been gained,
 children will listen to stories as long as the story teller will
 continue.


                        LIBRARIANS ENTHUSIASTIC

 “After a year or more of story telling in the public libraries,
 I believe in the power of the story more than ever. Between the
 settlements and the libraries, over 1,200 children come to listen to
 me each week, and besides I have been conducting a normal class to
 teach young librarians how to tell stories themselves.

 “All the librarians appear to be enthusiastic over the story hour, and
 although it adds to their cares and confusion, they welcome me each
 week with a friendliness that is truly genuine.

 “But the real inspiration comes from the children themselves. They
 never seem to tire, and sometimes keep me for an hour and a quarter
 with ‘A little more, please, just a few minutes. We want to know what
 became of Oliver,’ or ‘Didn’t Siegfried come to life again?’




                            THE STONE LION

 A Tibetan story, retold from the excellent collection of Captain
 O’Connor. Although a fairy-tale in form, it has the well marked
 purposive quality so characteristic of Eastern stories. Adapted from
 Folk-Tales from Tibet, by Captain W. P. O’Connor.

 This story was voted to be the best story told during two years to a
 class of younger children at Bancroft School, Worcester. Twenty-two
 children whispered their votes to the story teller. Ten chose The
 Stone Lion, while no other story received more than four votes.

 This story, by permission of authors and publishers, is taken from
 Story Telling in School and Home, by Emelyn Newcomb Partridge and
 George E. Partridge. Sturgis & Walton Company, New York.


Once there were two brothers who lived with their mother in a large
house on a farm. Their father was dead. The older brother was clever
and selfish; but the younger was kind and gentle. The older brother did
not like the younger because he was honest, and never could get the
best of a bargain; so one day he said to him:

“You must go away. I cannot support you any longer.”

So the younger brother packed all his belongings, and went to bid his
mother good-bye. When she heard what the older brother had done, she
said:

“I will go with you, my son. I will not live here any longer with so
hard-hearted a man as your brother.”

The next morning the mother and the younger brother started out
together. Toward night they came to a hut at the foot of a hill. It was
empty except for an axe, which stood behind the door. But they managed
to get their supper, and stayed in the hut all night.

In the morning they saw that on the side of the hill near the hut was
a great forest. The son took the axe, and went up on the hill side and
chopped enough wood for a load to carry to the town on the other side
of the hill. He easily sold it, and with a happy heart brought back
food and some clothing to make them both comfortable.

“Now, mother,” he said, “I can earn enough to keep us both, and we
shall be happy here together.”

Day after day he went out and cut the wood, and at night carried it to
the village and sold it; and they always had plenty to eat and what
they needed to make them happy and comfortable.

One day the boy went further up the hill than he had ever gone before
in search of better timber. As he climbed up the steep hillside, he
suddenly came upon a lion carved from stone.

“O!” thought the boy, “this must be the guardian deity of this
mountain. I will make him some offering tomorrow.”

That night he bought two candles, and carried them to the lion. He
lighted them and put one on each side of the lion, praying that his own
good fortune might continue.

As he stood there, suddenly the lion opened his great stone mouth, and
said:

“What are you doing here?”

The boy told him all the story of his hard-hearted brother, and how he
and his mother had left home, and were living in the hut at the foot of
the hill.

When he had heard all of the story, the lion said:

“If you will bring a bucket here tomorrow, and put it under my mouth, I
will fill it with gold for you.”

The next day the boy brought the bucket and put it under the lion’s
mouth.

“You must be very careful to tell me when it is nearly full,” said the
lion, “for if even one piece of gold should fall to the ground, great
trouble would be in store for you.”

The boy was very careful to do exactly as the lion told him, and soon
he was on his way home to his mother with a bucketful of gold.

They were so rich now that they bought a great, beautiful farm, and
went there to live. Everything the boy undertook seemed to prosper.
He worked hard, and grew strong; and before many years had passed he
was old enough to marry, and bring a bride to the home. But the mother
still lived with them, and they were all very contented and happy.

At last the hard-hearted brother heard of their prosperity. He too had
married, and had a little son. So he took his wife and the little boy,
and went to pay his younger brother a visit. It was not long before he
had heard the whole story of their good fortune, and how the lion had
given them all the gold.

“I will try that, too,” he said.

So he took his wife and child and went to the very same hut his brother
had lived in, and there they passed the night.

The very next morning he started out with a bucket to visit the Stone
Lion.

When he had told the lion his errand, the lion said:

“I will do that for you, but you must be very careful to tell me when
the bucket is nearly full; for even if one little piece of gold touches
the ground, great misery will surely fall upon you.”

Now the elder brother was so greedy that he kept shaking the bucket to
get the gold pieces closer together. And when the bucket was nearly
full he did not tell the lion, as the younger brother had done, for he
wanted all he could get.

Suddenly one of the gold pieces fell upon the ground.

“O,” cried the lion, “a big piece of gold is stuck in my throat. Put
your hand in and get it out. It is the largest piece of all.”

The greedy man thrust his hand at once into the lion’s mouth—and the
lion snapped his jaws together.

And there the man stayed, for the Lion would not let him go. And the
gold in the bucket turned into earth and stones.

When night came, and the husband did not come home, the wife became
anxious, and went out to search for him. At last she found him, with
his arm held fast in the lion’s mouth. He was tired, cold and hungry.
She comforted him as best she could, and brought him some food.

Every day now the wife must go with food for her husband. But there
came a day when all the money was gone, and the baby was sick, and the
poor woman herself was too ill to work. She went to her husband and
said:

“There is no more food for you, nor for us. We shall all have to die.
O! if we had only not tried to get the gold.”

The lion was listening to all that was said, and he was so pleased at
their misfortune that he began laughing at them. And as he laughed, he
opened his mouth, and the greedy man quickly drew out his hand, before
the lion had a chance to close his jaws again!

They were glad enough to get away from the place where they had had
such ill luck, and so they went to the brother’s house once more. The
brother was sorry for them, and gave them enough money to buy a small
place, and there the hard-hearted brother took his family and lived.

The younger brother and his wife and his mother lived very happily in
their beautiful home, but they always remembered the Stone Lion on the
hillside, who gave them their good fortune.




                     THE OYSTER AND ITS CLAIMANTS

 (From Walter Thornbury’s translation of Esop’s Fables, made into verse
 by M. De La Fontaine. Fable CLXXII. Page 501—“La Fontaine’s Fables.”)

       *       *       *       *       *

 There is something so grand in this species of composition, that many
 of the Ancients have attributed the greater part of these fables to
 Socrates; selecting as their author that individual amongst mortals
 who was most directly in communication with the gods. I am rather
 surprised that they have not maintained that these fables descended
 direct from heaven.... The fable is a gift which comes from the
 immortals; it if were the gift of man, he who gave it to us would
 deserve a temple. From Preface to La Fontaine’s Fables.


    Two travellers discovered on the beach
      An Oyster, carried thither by the sea.
    ’Twas eyed with equal greediness by each;
      Then came the question whose was it to be.
    One, stooping down to pounce upon the prize,
      Was thrust away before his hand could snatch it.
    “Not quite so quickly,” his companion cried;
      “If _you’ve_ a claim here, _I’ve_ a claim to match it;
    The first that saw it has the better right
      To its possession; come, you can’t deny it.”
    “Well,” said his friend, “my orbs are pretty bright,
      And I, upon my life, was first to spy it.”
    “You? Not at all; or, if you _did_ perceive it,
      I _smelt_ it long before it was in view;
    But here’s a lawyer coming—let us leave it
      To him to arbitrate between the two.”
    The lawyer listens with a stolid face,
      Arrives at his decision in a minute;
    And, as the shortest way to end the case,
      Opens the shell and eats the fish within it.
    The rivals look upon him with dismay:—
      “This Court,” says he, “awards you each a shell;
    You’ve neither of you any costs to pay,
      And so be happy. Go in peace. Farewell!”

    How often, when causes to trial are brought,
    Does the lawyer get pelf and his client get nought!
    The former will pocket his fees with a sneer,
    While the latter sneaks off with a flea in his ear.




             THE PSYCHO-THERAPEUTIC VALUE OF STORY TELLING

                          _FRANCES E. FOOTE_


The Story telling Movement is growing with such gigantic strides that
a magazine which will keep the Missionaries in this movement in touch
with one another seems most desirable, if not absolutely necessary.

Many writers have voiced many opinions as to the benefits to be derived
from the exercise of the Art of Story telling, but there is one which
I have never seen in black and white, about which I feel impelled to
write. It is the _Psycho-Therapeutic value of Story telling_.

Pain is a real thing, and will hold us in his clutches and claim all
our attention if allowed to do so.

Sorrow is absorbing, and will bow our heads and break our spirits if
unhindered.

Upon what, then, may we concentrate our attention, that pain may grow
weary of pressing his claim?

With what may we so absorb our minds that sorrow will fade away?

One of the fundamental principles of Story telling is that the oral
interpreter of Literature, must so vividly _see_ the pictures described
in the story, that he will cause his hearers to feel that they, too,
see.

He must _feel_ the impulses and emotions of the characters in the story
so truly that the hearts of his hearers will thrill with the same
feeling.

Since this is true, that the mind must be absorbed in the distant
scenes of Story Land, pain in due course of time must grow tired of
urging his claim and will ultimately depart.

The emotions dominant in stories which we tell are altruistic for the
most part. We prefer to dwell upon themes in which evil is overcome by
good; those in which sorrow flees away and joy comes with the morning.

Isn’t it true that the person who, day after day, creates these
altruistic emotions in the hearts of his hearers will find his sorrow,
deep-seated though it may be, growing dimmer day by day as he brightens
the lives of his hearers?

There are many cases which I could give you to prove my point. One, of
a little child with spinal trouble, who was treated by a great surgeon.
He would call upon her two or three days out of the week and each time
tell her a story. He required her, meanwhile, to make up similar
stories. For instance, he would tell her the story of “Little Green
Cap.” Then he would say, “Now, by Tuesday I want you to have a story
ready for me. It must be about a poor little girl, a princess and a
magic ring.” So absorbed did the child become in such work that the
pain in the poor little back grew less and less insistent until she
ceased to be an invalid and was able to attend school. She was one of
the happiest children I ever knew. She said she didn’t mind the pain
any more, she had such lovely things to think about.

Another was the case of a young woman upon whom sorrow laid a heavy
hand. Prostrated by grief, she lay for several days in a darkened room.
Then rousing herself she went to a hospital and secured permission from
the superintendent to visit daily the friendless patients who seemed
lonely. For months she reported daily to the superintendent, was given
directions as to which patients to visit, and for three hours she
would go from one to the other telling humorous stories. The morning
hours she spent hunting for artistic, mirth-provoking stories and her
afternoons in bringing smiles to sad faces. The result was inevitable.
People everywhere welcomed her as a ray of sunshine.

One more case—that of a young woman who, while making a brave struggle
to recover from one serious operation, suddenly found herself facing
another even more serious. With nerves racked by persistent pain,
courage well nigh gone, pursued by that dread foe insomnia, she turned
to her one accomplishment, Story telling. Though able to sit up but a
few hours at a time, she held large audiences in many cities two or
three times a week, until she once more went under the knife. Then
within two months she was on the platform again, bringing herself back
to health by compelling her mind to dwell in Storyland. I knew all the
particulars of this case, the physical torture she endured for two
years, the struggle she made to live, and knowing what I do, forces me
to believe that if Story telling did not save her life, it certainly
saved her reason.

It is a law of life that the only thing which we may always _keep_, is
the thing we _give_. If then, the prime function of Story telling is
the giving of _Joy_, then _Joy_ is the thing which the Story teller may
have.

To those who “travail and are heavy laden” I commend the Art of Story
telling.




                       STORY TELLING FOR MOTHERS


Interesting accounts were recently published in the _Herald_, _Sun_ and
other New York papers of Miss Georgene Faulkner’s story telling for
mothers and children at the Waldorf-Astoria, New York and St. Mary’s
Parish House, Brooklyn.

The story telling at the Waldorf-Astoria was given under the auspices
of Mrs. William Rogers Chapman, President of the Rubenstein Musical
Club, to an audience of fourteen hundred, of which about seven hundred
were children.

Miss Faulkner, in Mother Goose attire, told the children Mother Goose
stories, assisted by singers who presented ballads to accompany the
stories. Much to the amusement of the children, Miss Faulkner would
sometimes change the text of the Mother Goose rhymes, and the children
were not backward about crying out corrections of these errors. Miss
Faulkner would say:

    “Jack and Jill went up the hill,
      Like a dutiful son and daughter;
    Now Jack is sick, and Jill is ill,
      They did not boil the water.”

This would be greeted by a chorus of, “No, No, that isn’t the way it
goes!” and other exclamations.

Later, Miss Faulkner, in German costume, told the fairy story of
“Hansel and Gretel.”

The “Gingerbread Man,” otherwise known as “Johnny Cake” and “The Wee
Bunnock,” gave more pleasure to the children than any other story,
perhaps because it was accompanied by Gingerbread Men in neat boxes,
which were given to the children as souvenirs of the occasion.

Through the courtesy of Mrs. Chapman and with the assistance of Mrs.
Arthur Elliot Fish, one hundred crippled children, from the Industrial
School for Crippled Children, participated in the delights of the
“Mother Goose” matinee.

The story telling at St. Mary’s Parish House, was arranged primarily
for mothers, under the auspices of Miss Mabel McKinney, Superintendent
of the Kindergartens in the Borough of Brooklyn.

“What kind of a story,” said Miss Faulkner, “should the mother tell
to her children? Any good interesting story will lend itself to the
spoken narrative. Many mothers are so careless about what their
children read —thinking that almost any book which they get from the
library will answer the need. This is a great mistake. If the mother
will only take care to direct the young mind into the right channels
at the impressionable period she would lay a firm foundation on which
to build the future life of the child. Not only are many books from
Public Libraries pernicious, but from the Sunday-School Libraries as
well. Many mothers make a practice of filling the minds of their little
children with a hodge-podge of information, superstition, fear and
other ideas which have had a bad effect upon the children’s mind. They
think it makes little difference what they put into the child’s thought
so long as it is a story. In reality it makes all the difference in the
world.

“With the great storehouse of classical and folk-lore stories within
easy reach; stories of brave deeds well done; of self-sacrifice; of
love and duty and other high ideals, the mind of the child is easily
guided into channels of right thinking, and if mothers only realized
it more fully, it is in their power through the medium of these
stories to fill the little mind with ideals, which will have a most
important bearing through life in the development of character. Through
the simple art of story telling the mother possesses the key to the
hidden nature of the child if she could only be made to appreciate and
understand the value of the story influence.”

       *       *       *       *       *

The Story Tellers’ League at the Alabama Girls’ Technical Institute,
Montevallo, is divided into chapters: The Poe Chapter; the Uncle Remus
Chapter, and the Wyche Chapter. The Poe Chapter deals with the Edgar
Allen Poe stories, Kipling, Hawthorne, and Irving, while the Uncle
Remus Chapter deals with the Arabian Nights, Robin Hood, Uncle Remus,
Folk and Fairy Tales. The Wyche Chapter deals with the Stories of King
Arthur; the Opera stories—Magic Flute, Hansel and Gretel; the Beowulf
Story, and Stories of Knighthood by J. H. Cox. The Chapters meet once
a week separately, throughout the school year, and occasionally they
have a joint meeting. The programme of the League as well as other
societies in the school are published by the Institute, and may be had
for the asking. The Story Tellers’ League, with its three chapters, has
a combined membership of one hundred and twenty-five, making it one of
the strongest organizations in the school. One Chapter of the League
devotes time to the playing of folk games at the recreation hour, in
the afternoon, on the lawn.




             THE BEOWULF CLUB OF WEST VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY

                        BY JOHN HARRINGTON COX


The above-named organization is the story telling club of the
University. Its formation grew out of the enthusiasm of four young
women who were studying the great Anglo-Saxon epic, of course, in
the original. Their eagerness to master the famous tale, to be
able to retell it with at least somewhat of its original vigor,
picturesqueness, and fascination, was worthy of a permanent record.
Their zeal was to make the story something more than a mere name. They
thought that this priceless bit of literary heritage should be gotten
off the printed page and down into the hearts of people far and wide
throughout our State.

As the idea developed its possibilities began to be more fully
realized. Here was an opportunity of enlisting the sympathies of some
of the brightest young men and young women of the University, in the
great stories of the world; stories of all ages and all countries;
prose and verse, ranging from the fairy tale to the Iliad. And,
moreover, it was thought that the interest would not be a passing one,
but permanent. The necessity of mastering the outlines of a story, the
practice in recreating it by memory and imagination, the vivifying of
it through the emotions and the personality of the teller, was believed
to furnish an exercise in many ways more pleasurable and profitable
than those obtained in the usual recitation.

The result more than fulfilled all expectations. The club was formed
on the Twenty-ninth of February, Nineteen hundred and eight. Since
that time it has not missed a single meeting. The membership averages
about twelve from year to year. Most of these on leaving the University
become teachers and carry the work into their schools, teachers’
institutes, and public entertainments. Several times the club has been
invited to give a public performance. Invitations to its meetings are
eagerly welcomed and the young people who tell the stories never lack
for an appreciative audience.

       *       *       *       *       *

Detroit, Michigan, has recently organized a Story Tellers’ League. Miss
Mary Conover is President, and Miss Alice M. Alexander, Secretary. The
first program is devoted to Irish stories; the second evening Folk
stories. Hero tales for another meeting, with Bible and Animal stories
to make up the programs for two meetings. The League meets at the
College Club rooms, and has a membership of thirty.




                HOW TO ORGANIZE A STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE


“I have just read an article in the March number of _The World’s Work_,
on the Story Tellers’ League movement, have heard of the Story Tellers’
League, or read a chapter in Mr. Wyche’s book, ‘Some Good Stories and
How to Tell Them,’ on the Story Tellers’ League, and should like to
organize such a league in my community. How shall I go about it?”

This is a question that comes almost every day to some officer of the
Story Tellers’ League.

The method of procedure in organizing a Story Tellers’ League is a very
simple one. The first step is to call a meeting of as many prospective
members as can be gotten together. A chairman and secretary _pro tem_
should then be elected and the meeting called to order. The organizer
should then state the purpose of the meeting, ask for the enrollment
of the names and addresses of those who wish to join and have these
recorded by the secretary.

The next step is the nomination and election of permanent officers,
usually a President, First Vice-President, Second Vice-President,
Recording Secretary, Corresponding Secretary and Treasurer. Upon the
election of these officers, the chairman and secretary pro tem resign
in favor of the elected officers, and the League is then duly organized
for business.

The adoption of the Constitution and By-Laws is next in order. The
Constitution deals with the name, object, membership, officers, etc.,
of the League; while the By-Laws provide for the dates of meetings,
dues, time and mode of the election of officers, and such other
rules and regulations for the conduct of the League as may be deemed
desirable. An Executive Committee may then be appointed to look
after the general business of the League, such as the arrangement of
programmes at the meetings; the planning of entertainments and special
exercises, and various other matters of this nature. The officers of
the League are usually _ex officio_ members of the Executive Committee.

The League when organized should be reported to the President of the
National Story Tellers’ League, with the name and address of its
President and Secretary, so that it may be enrolled with similar
Leagues throughout the United States.

Some leagues issue Year-books which may be had upon application to the
Secretary. The National League will shortly issue a year-book giving
general information in regard to the story telling movement, with list
of the League’s suggestive programmes.




                      WHAT THE LEAGUES ARE DOING


The National Playground and Recreation Association of America will hold
its next annual meeting at Richmond, Virginia, May 6th to 10th.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miss Anna Tyler of the New York Public Library, recently spoke to the
Public School Kindergarten Association on the subject of Story Telling
and Children’s Books. The New York Library has thirty-eight branches,
and Miss Tyler has charge of the story-telling work in these branches.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miss Tyler explained how illuminating it was to watch the little ones’
use of books, and how the child was introduced to the right book by
seeing pictures in the book and hearing a story told from the book.

       *       *       *       *       *

The National Story Tellers’ League will hold a conference with members
and representatives of all local Leagues this Summer, at the following
places: July 19th, at Knoxville, Tenn., in connection with the Summer
School of the South. At Chautauqua, N. Y., August 16th, in connection
with the Chautauqua Institute. At Parkersburg, West Virginia, June
21st, in connection with the State Teachers’ Association of West
Virginia.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Story Tellers’ League of Philadelphia, a branch of the National
League, has for its President, Mr. F. A. Child, Professor of Oral
Literature in the University of Pennsylvania. The meeting of March
12th was called “Indian Day.” Primitive tales of Alaskan Indian life,
inspired by legends on the Totem Pole, gives one an idea of the subject
of the day. Mr. L. V. Shortridge, University of Pennsylvania, dressed
in native costume told the stories. He showed the Alaskan territory,
with its totem poles, putting his audience in touch with actual
conditions from which these folk tales grew. At this meeting teachers,
story tellers and leaders of groups of children were invited to bring
children with them. Mr. Robert Staton furnished Indian Song.

       *       *       *       *       *

Philadelphia has one of the largest and most successful Leagues. Its
membership numbers something like one hundred people, and it has
created a great deal of interest in the city among various classes of
teachers and educators as well as lovers of literature.




                               EDITORIAL


In entering the arena of Journalism THE STORYTELLERS’ MAGAZINE invites
the support of all who love literature and youth. There are many
magazines today covering almost every field of activity, but not one
devoted to _the art of story telling_.

While it is true that most of the magazines publish stories, few of
them deal with the educational aspect of these stories—their most
important relation.

Story telling in the schools; at the home; on the playground; in the
Sunday schools; the children’s library rooms of the Public Library,
and among social organizations has become so popular and aroused
such widespread interest throughout the land that some medium of
communication which will represent and unify these interests—has
become almost a necessity.

THE STORYTELLERS’ MAGAZINE is founded upon a definite purpose. It
enters the field in the hope that it will merit the support of a large
number of general readers as well as teachers, parents and all who are
interested in the uplifting of the rising generation. It goes forth as
a missionary to acquaint its audience as far as it can with the vital
principles that underlie the whole movement of story telling. It,
therefore, invites the co-operation of all who believe in the story
telling idea, in the hope that great good may come through such a union
of interests.

The Editor of the MAGAZINE has devoted many years to the work of
story telling, and he earnestly hopes that through the columns of
the MAGAZINE greater opportunity may be afforded for direction and
organization, and thus make more permanent the whole story telling
movement.

There is a growing belief that in arranging the curriculum of studies
for the young the rights and interests of the child have received
but scant consideration. Mere drudgery has been translated to mean
development while hard labor with little thought to the tendencies and
attributes of the individual child has been accepted as education.

THE STORYTELLERS’ MAGAZINE offers itself as a champion of the rights
of the child in education, and it hopes with the co-operation of those
who know and believe in the efficacy of the story as a pleasing and
effective instrument of education to battle bravely for the rights and
liberties of the child, who has been aptly termed “the last serf of
civilization.”

       *       *       *       *       *

Elsewhere in this issue will be found an “ANNOUNCEMENT” setting forth
in some detail the aims and ideals of the STORYTELLERS’ MAGAZINE.

The chief aim of this magazine is to serve the great cause of story
telling in a manner that will best satisfy the needs of _the greatest
number_ of those interested in the movement.

How shall this be accomplished? The answer to this question is
_Co-operation_.

The first issue of a magazine is something of an experiment. Its
make-up is open to criticism and discussion. Its friends can do it no
greater service than to disclose its shortcomings and point out the
road to improvement.

Criticism is usually divided into two schools, one constructive, the
other destructive; or better, let us say into friendly or unfriendly
criticism.

While we shall endeavor to turn all unfriendly comment into
constructive channels, we shall hope far more to profit by the
sympathetic assistance and helpful advice of friends and well-wishers.

The latch string is out to all, but a double welcome is assured to
those who “LEND A HAND.”




                   THE MOTHER—THE CHILD—THE STORY

 Extract from a Report of Committee on Story Telling to the Montessori
 Class, University of Virginia Summer School


Since all races in all epochs have used oral stories both as a means
of education and entertainment, and since much of the culture and
civilization that our ancestors have bequeathed to us has come down
to us in the form of story literature, and since the children of all
races and in all times have said, “Tell me a story,” we believe it is
fundamental in the child’s life and education.

We believe that the mother, who instinctively hums lullabys and sings
Mother Goose Rhymes to the child is cultivating the child’s sense
of rhythm, touching its feelings, and speaking to it through vocal
language—voice modulation—which precedes verbal language; that the
mother who sings

    “Hush you bybaby in the tree tops,
    When the wind blows the cradle will rock,” etc.,

and other Mother Goose jingles, has already begun her story telling.

That the story, the most universally used medium for conveying truth
and especially the _told_ story that comes through the sensuous beauty
of speech, should be continued throughout the child’s education.

We believe that when a child attributes life to its doll, makes up
strange and unreal stories, that it does so in obedience to a deep
psychic necessity,—that of developing the imagination, and that as a
child climbs a tree or ladder and in doing so develops his body and
bodily senses, so he must have for the development of his imagination
the clear, bold, mental picture whether it be in fairy and folk stories
or the high daring of some noble hero in epic literature or history.

We believe that the development of the imagination should go hand
in hand with the sense training, modified by local, ethnic, and
individual needs, and that children as well as adults must have heroes
to admire and worship and ideals to inspire; that the idea of God
can be represented only through the imagination and that to deny the
child stories of gods and supernatural beings would be to bring him up
without religious training. That the story that delights the child has
psycho-therapeutic value and whether it be fact or fiction it is true
in a higher sense, ministering to the spiritual needs of the child, and
therefore valuable in education.

We believe that it is the most inalienable right of all children to
hear stories told from the great story books of the world; that wise
selections of stories should be made not only from the literature and
history of Europe and America, but from Japan, China, Russia, and
India, so that we may develop in the young people a feeling of a world
brotherhood.




                            THE GREAT EPICS


The following suggestive outline of a “STORY HOUR CYCLE,” arranged by
the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh, is re-published as an excellent
example of systematic classification.

Such study applied to any of the great epics will not only discover to
the story teller a great treasure house of stories, but will be helpful
in holding them together in sequential relation.


STORIES FROM THE ILIAD AND THE ODYSSEY


THE SIEGE OF TROY


STORY I. THE APPLE OF DISCORD

  1. The Founding of Troy
  2. Story of Paris and Œnone
  3. Marriage of Peleus and Thetis
  4. The Apple of Discord
  5. The Judgment of Paris


STORY II. THE LEAGUE AGAINST TROY

  1. The Athletic Games in Troy
  2. Discovery of the Parentage of Paris
  3. Embassy to Greece
  4. Story of Helen and the Pledge of the Greek Princes
  5. Abduction of Helen
  6. League against Troy


STORY III. THE BEGINNING OF THE TROJAN WAR

  1. The Stratagem of Ulysses
  2. The Quest for Achilles
  3. The Assembling of the Greeks
  4. The Omen of the Snake and the Birds
  5. The Sacrifice of Iphigenia
  6. The Heroism of Protesilaus
  7. Beginning of the War


STORY IV. THE QUARREL OF THE CHIEFS

  1. The Wrath of Apollo
  2. How Agamemnon Wronged Achilles
  3. The Revenge of Achilles
  4. The Dream of Agamemnon
  5. Assembly of the Greeks
  6. The Counsel of Ulysses
  7. Preparation for the Battle


STORY V. THE DUEL OF PARIS AND MENELAUS

  1. The Challenge of Paris
  2. The Combat
  3. The Council of the Gods
  4. The Broken Covenant


STORY VI. THE COMBAT OF HECTOR AND AJAX

  1. The Message of Hector
  2. The Parting of Hector and Andromache
  3. The Challenge
  4. The Casting of the Lots
  5. The Combat
  6. The Truce


STORY VII. THE BATTLE OF THE PLAIN

  1. The Command of Zeus to the Gods
  2. The Battle
  3. The Speech of Hector
  4. The Council of the Greeks
  5. The Embassy to Achilles
  6. The Answer of Achilles


STORY VIII. THE DEEDS AND DEATH OF PATROCLUS

  1. The Battle at the Ships
  2. The Request of Patroclus
  3. The Myrmidons March forth to Battle
  4. The Death of Patroclus
  5. The Grief of Achilles
  6. How Achilles ended the Battle


STORY IX. THE EXPLOITS OF ACHILLES

  1. The Making of the Armor for Achilles
  2. The End of the Strife with Agamemnon
  3. The Battle at the River
  4. The Battle of the Gods
  5. Achilles’ Pursuit of the False Agener


STORY X. THE SLAYING OF HECTOR

  1. The Pursuit of Hector by Achilles
  2. The Combat
  3. Death of Hector
  4. Grief of Andromache
  5. The Funeral of Patroclus
  6. The Funeral Games of the Greeks
  7. The Ransoming of Hector


STORY XI. THE FALL OF TROY

  1. The Fate of Achilles
  2. The Death of Paris
  3. Capture of the Palladium
  4. Stratagem of Ulysses
  5. The Fate of Laocoön
  6. Capture of Troy


THE ADVENTURES OF ULYSSES


STORY XII. ADVENTURES OF ULYSSES WITH THE LOTUS-EATERS AND THE CYCLOPS

  1. Adventure with the Ciconians
  2. The Lotus-eaters
  3. The Land of the Cyclops
  4. In the Cave of the Cyclops
  5. The Blinding of Polyphemus
  6. Escape of Ulysses and his Companions


STORY XIII. THE KINGDOM OF THE WINDS AND THE HOUSE OF CIRCE

  1. The Gift of Æolus
  2. The Loosing of the Winds
  3. Return to the Isle of Æolus
  4. Adventure with the Læstrygones
  5. The Wiles of Circe


STORY XIV. THE VISIT TO THE “LAND OF THE SHADES”

  1. The Offering for the Dead
  2. The Warning of Tiresias the Seer
  3. How Ulysses Conversed with his Mother and with Achilles and other
      Heroes
  4. The Judging of the Dead
  5. Return to Circe’s Isle.


STORY XV. THE SONG OF THE SIRENS, SCYLLA AND CHARYBDIS AND THE OXEN OF
THE SUN

  1. Song of the Sirens
  2. Escape from Scylla and Charybdis
  3. Arrival at the Island of the Sun
  4. The Slaying of the Sacred Kine
  5. The Wrath of Hyperion
  6. The Shipwreck


STORY XVI. THE ISLAND OF CALYPSO AND THE SHIPWRECK ON THE COAST OF
PHÆACIA

  1. The Years on Calypso’s Isle
  2. Minerva seeks aid for Ulysses from Jupiter
  3. Mercury is sent with a Message to Calypso
  4. Making of the Raft
  5. Departure of Ulysses
  6. The Tempest
  7. Ulysses Cast on the Coast of Phæacia


STORY XVII. THE PRINCESS NAUSICAA

  1. The Request of Nausicaa
  2. The Games of the Maidens
  3. Discovery of Ulysses
  4. How Ulysses was Received in the Palace of Alcinous
  5. The Festival
  6. Return to Ithaca
  7. Ulysses left asleep in his Native Shore
  8. The Ship of the Phæacians changed to a Rock


STORY XVIII. THE ADVENTURES OF TELEMACHUS

  1. The Suitors of Penelope
  2. Penelope’s Web
  3. Visit of Minerva to Telemachus
  4. Assembly of the Men of Ithaca
  5. Departure of Telemachus in quest of Ulysses
  6. Journey to Pylos and Sparta
  7. Telemachus warned by Minerva to return to Ithaca
  8. Conspiracy of the Suitors
  9. Escape of Telemachus


STORY XIX. THE BATTLE OF THE BEGGARS

  1. Awaking of Ulysses
  2. Transformation into an Old Man
  3. Meeting with Eumæus
  4. Arrival of Telemachus
  5. Eumæus conducts Ulysses to his Palace
  6. The Dog Argus
  7. The Beggars’ Quarrel
  8. The End of the Feast


STORY XX. THE TRIUMPH OF ULYSSES

  1. Removal of the Weapons from the Hall
  2. Interview with Penelope
  3. The Scar of the Boar’s Tooth
  4. The Last Banquet of the Suitors
  5. The Trial of the Bow
  6. Death of the Suitors
  7. Recognition of Ulysses by Penelope




                           SOME RECENT BOOKS


 “STORY TELLING IN SCHOOL AND HOME.” A Study in Educational Æsthetics.
 By Emelyn Newcomb Partridge and George Everett Partridge, Ph.D.
 Publishers, Sturgis & Walton Co., New York. Price, $1.25 net.

This is the fifth book that has appeared on story telling in the past
half a dozen years. The authors have presented the psychological
foundation and the æsthetic value of story telling in a most elaborate
and convincing way. It is the first book that has been written by a
psychologist, on the subject of story telling, and Dr. Partridge’s
handling of the delicate, subtle, psychic forces that enter into
literature and story telling is masterful; while Mrs. Partridge, with
her practical experience as a story teller, contributes as much to the
art as applied and exemplified in actual work of facing an audience of
young people.

The study of the child on one hand and its fundamental needs, and the
survey and analysis of sources from which we can draw material,—myth,
fable, folklore, epic, and history on the other, is of immense value
to all story tellers and all who teach young people even up to college
entrance.

Part II of the book contains a dozen retold stories that have been
put into shape by the oral telling, and are valuable both because
of the form and their intrinsic worth. The book contains a number
of illustrations, which add to its attractiveness, along with a
bibliography and suggestions for reading. We cannot praise the book too
highly. It is an inspiring book to read and a permanent contribution to
the literature of story telling.


 SOME GREAT STORIES AND HOW TO TELL THEM. By Richard Thomas Wyche.
 Price $1.00. Newson & Company, New York.

“Story tellers were the first teachers,” says Mr. Wyche in his chapter
on “The Origin of Story Telling.”

In an interesting way he throws light on what stories shall be told,
the use of the story in the classroom and in formal work, the story in
the Sunday-school, the library, the playground, and the social circle.

The author also discusses the fundamental needs of the child, the
psychological principles involved, and the spiritual equipment needed
in story telling.

For purposes of illustration the author uses “The Story of Beowulf,”
“The Coming of Arthur,” and other “Great Stories.”


 GAMES FOR THE PLAYGROUND, HOME, SCHOOL, AND GYMNASIUM. By Jessie H.
 Bancroft. Price, $1.50 net. The Macmillan Company, New York.

Miss Bancroft’s book of games is a volume of over four hundred and
sixty pages, with twenty-three illustrations. It contains, we should
say, over two thousand games classified for Elementary schools from
the first to the eighth year, for High schools, for playgrounds, for
gymnasiums, for boys’ and girls’ summer camps, for house parties
and country clubs, for children’s parties, and for the seashore. An
excellent system of classification makes it possible to classify the
games in many different ways, and thus easily find those suited to
one’s needs.

As story telling and playing games are blood relations on the
playground, this book is to be cordially commended as an interesting
and valuable contribution to the Cause.


 THE NORMAL CHILD AND PRIMARY EDUCATION. By Arnold L. Gesell, Ph.D.,
 and Beatrice Chandler Gesell, Ed.B. Price, $1.25. Ginn & Company, New
 York.

This work, the authors tell us, is chiefly the result of contact with
eager minds of young women who were preparing to teach young children.

It will interest story tellers mainly because of its extensive analysis
and discussion of the child in the educational relation.

“To achieve results in literature,” it is stated, “the children
must have something more than a good story: they must have a good
story teller—one with quick sympathies and an intuitive knowledge
of her group; one who loves the old stories, who feels the pulse of
humanity throbbing through them all; whose voice is clear, flexible,
interpretative; whose language is simple, direct, pictorial; who enters
into a dramatic situation; who has a keen sense of humor, who is
willing to sow the seed and let it develop in its own good time.” “The
Normal Child” is a most helpful, illuminating, and instructive book.


 THE CHILDREN’S READING. By Frances Jenkins Olcott. Price, $1.25 net.
 Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston.

Miss Olcott has given us a valuable book on children’s readings. She
speaks as an authority from her many years’ experience as a librarian;
therein is the chief value of her book. She knows the names and
authors of many of the best books for young people, and gives many
valuable lists of books. The very fact that she has had to deal with
so many books from without as a librarian, has probably prevented her
knowing so well the inside of the book,—seeing and living with its
imagery, communing with its spirit and breathing its atmosphere until
it gives up its deepest meaning. Any treatment of a story that helps
one to visualize, to re-create, to breathe its atmosphere and live its
spirit, ought to be valuable; the letter killeth, the spirit giveth
life. However, her quotations from authors who have done that are many
and valuable. The one on Homer’s Iliad, page 103, is especially good;
but she barely mentions the Odyssey, the more interesting story to
the young people. The book is conservative rather than original and
creative.


 ALDINE FIRST LANGUAGE BOOK. For Grades Three and Four. By Catherine T.
 Bryce and Frank E. Spaulding. Price 48 cents.

 A MANUAL FOR TEACHERS. To accompany Aldine First Language Book. Price
 60 cents. Newson & Company, New York.

These two books, the Manual and the Pupil’s book accompanying it, the
authors tell us have grown out of many years’ experiment in teaching
“language” so called.

The work which the child is called upon to accomplish is, throughout
the entire book, based on fables, myths, legends, stories of all kind,
rhymes and poems, the delight of childhood, all of which are fully
within the range of the child’s understanding and appreciation. The
varieties of ways in which these materials are presented arouses the
keen interest of the children, stimulates their thought, and quickens
their whole mental life. They discuss freely, they dramatize, they
reproduce orally and in writing, the work over into new forms, they
live and love the contents of stories and poems. No one can read this
pupil’s book without becoming impressed with the tremendous value of
story telling as a direct instrument of education. The introduction
of a comprehensive “Teacher’s Manual” into the class-room, explaining
the work to the teacher step by step, seems to be a new and most
serviceable idea.


 STORIES OF LONG AGO IN THE PHILIPPINES. By Dudley Odell McGovney, A.M.
 Price forty cents. World Book Company, Yonkers-on-Hudson, New York.

 THE STORY READERS’ PRIMER. By May Langdon White. Price thirty-six
 cents. World Book Company, Yonkers-on-Hudson, New York.

These little stories of ancient days in the Philippines contain such
interesting selections as “The Sea and the Sky,” “The Bird and the
Bamboo,” “The Good and the Evil Spirits,” “Naming the Islands,” and
“Manila Long Ago.” These stories have a certain historic value and will
be read with interest by children in the United States.

The Story Readers’ Primer tells of the every day experiences of two
happy, healthy children, and makes effective use of the classic stories
and poems.




                             BIBLIOGRAPHY


In this list of books, Column I gives the price upon receipt of which
the book named will be sent post-paid. Column II gives the price upon
receipt of which the book named will be sent post-paid together with
The Storytellers’ Magazine for one year. Remittances may safely be made
by Money or Express Order or by draft on New York. All communications
should be sent to The Storytellers’ Magazine, 27 West 23d Street,
New York, giving the name of the book wanted; the date at which the
subscription to The Storytellers’ Magazine should begin, and the name
and full post-office address of the sender.


                           I. Story Telling

                                         Column I        Column II
                                          Price            Price
                                      at which Book      of Book and
                                       will be sent    THE STORYTELLERS’
                                         post-paid       MAGAZINE for
                                                            one year
                                                   Book and
                                                 STORYTELLERS’
  BRYANT, Sara Cone.—How to Tell Stories           MAGAZINE
        to Children.                         1.00   Combined   $1.65
     Stories to Tell Children.               1.00               1.65
  HOUGHTON, Louise.—Telling Bible Stories   1.25        “       1.85
  KEYES.—Stories and Story-Telling.         1.25        “       1.85
  LYMAN, Edna.—Story-Telling: What to
        Tell and How to Tell It             0.75        “       1.55
  PARTRIDGE, E. N. & G. P.—Story-Telling
        in School and Home.                 1.25        “       1.75
  WYCHE, R. T.—Some Great Stories and
        How to Tell Them.                   1.00                1.55


II. Bible Stories

  BUNYAN.—Pilgrim’s Progress.               1.00        “       1.65
  CHISHOLM.—Stories from The Old Testament. 0.50        “       1.30
  CHURCH.—Story of the Last Days of
           Jerusalem.                       1.25        “       1.85
  HODGES.—Saints and Heroes.                1.35        “       1.95
  KELMAN.—Stories from the Life of Christ.  0.50        “       1.30
  PENDLETON.—In Assyrian Tents.             0.75        “       1.55
  SHEPARD.—Young Folks Josephus.            1.25        “       1.85
  SIVITER.—Nehe, Story of Nehemiah.         1.50        “       2.10
  TOLSTOI.—Where Love Is—There is God Also. 0.35        “       1.25


III. Epics, Romances and Classic Tales

  ARNOLD.—Sohrab and Rustem.                0.25        “       1.15
  BALDWIN.—Story of Roland.                 1.50        “       2.10
  BALDWIN.—Story of Siegfried.              1.50        “       2.10
  CARPENTER.—Hellenic Tales.                0.60        “       1.45
  CHURCH.—Odyssey for Boys and Girls.       1.50        “       2.10
  CHURCH.—Stories of Charlemagne.           1.75        “       2.25
  CHURCH.—Stories of Homer.                 1.25        “       1.85
  CRAWFORD.—Tr. the Kalevala, the National
        Epic of Finland.                    3.00        “       3.50
  DARTON.—Tales of the Canterbury Pilgrims. 1.50        “       2.10
  DARTON.—Wonder-book of Old Romance.       1.50        “       2.10
  DAVIDSON.—A Knight Errant—Story of
        Amadis of Gaul.                     1.75        “       2.25
  HAVELL.—Stories from Don Quixote.         1.50        “       2.10
  HIGGINSON.—Tales of the Enchanted
        Islands of the Atlantic             1.50        “       2.10
  HOLBROOK.—Northland Heroes.               0.35        “       1.25
  HULL.—The Boy’s Cuchulain-Irish Hero
        Legends.                            1.50        “       2.10
  IRVING.—Tales from the Alhambra.          0.60        “       1.40
  LANG, A.—Book of Romance.                 1.60        “       2.15
  LANG, Andrew.—“Tales of Troy and
        Greece.”                            1.00        “       1.65
  LANG, L. B.—Red Book of Heroes.           1.60        “       2.15
  LANIER.—The Boy’s King Arthur.            2.00        “       2.45
  MABIE.—Heroes Every Child Should
        Know.                               0.50        “       1.30
  MACLEOD.—Book of King Arthur, etc.
        (Inexpensive edition.)              1.00        “       1.65
  MACLEOD.—Book of King Arthur and His
        Noble Knights.                      1.50        “       2.10
  MACLEOD.—Stories from the Faerie Queene   1.50        “       2.10
  MCSPADDEN.—Stories from Wagner.           0.50        “       1.30
  MCSPADDEN.—Stories from Chaucer.          0.50        “       1.30
  MARSHALL.—Stories of Beowulf.             0.50        “       1.30
  MARSHALL.—Stories of Childe Roland.       0.50        “       1.30
  MARSHALL.—Story of William Tell.          0.50        “       1.30
  MORRIS.—Story of Sigurd the Volsung.      2.00        “       2.45
  PALMER.—Tr. Odyssey of Homer.             1.00        “       1.65
  PYLE.—Story of King Arthur and his Knights. 2.00      “       2.45
  PYLE.—Story of Launcelot and his Companions.2.00      “       2.45
  PYLE.—Some Merry Adventures of Robin
          Hood. (Condensed)                 0.50        “       1.30
  PYLE.—Merry Adventures of Robin Hood      3.00        “       3.30
  RAGOZIN.—Frithj and Roland.               1.25        “       1.85
  RAGOZIN.—Siegfried and Beowulf.           1.25        “       1.85
  ROYDE-SMITH.—Una and the Red Cross Knight.2.50        “       2.85
  TEGNER.—Frithiof’s Saga.                  1.25        “       1.85
  TINKER.—Beowulf. Tr. by Tinker.           1.00        “       1.65
  WILMOT-BUXTON.—Stories of Persian Heroes. 1.50        “       2.10
  WILSON.—The Story of the Cid.             1.25        “       1.85


IV. Fables, Myths, Heroes and Folk Lore

  ÆSOP’S FABLES.—Ed. by Joseph Jacobs.        1.50       “      2.10
  ANDERSEN.—Wonder Stories.                   1.00       “      1.65
  AUSTIN.—The Basket Woman—Ute Indian Tales.  1.50       “      2.10
  BALDWIN.—Story of the Golden Age.           1.50       “      2.10
  BALDWIN.—Wonder-book of Horses.             0.75       “      1.60
  BLUMENTHAL.—Folk Tales from the Russians    0.60       “      1.45
  BRADISH.—Old Norse Stories.                 0.45       “      1.28
  BROWN.—In the Days of Giants.               1.10       “      1.85
  BRYCE.—Fables from Afar.                    0.45       “      1.28
          Short Stories for Little Folks.     0.35       “      1.20
  BRYCE.—That’s Why Stories.                  0.45       “      1.28
  DASENT.—Popular Tales from the Norse.       2.50       “      2.85
  GRIFFIS.—The Fire-Fly’s Lovers, Japanese
          Folk Tales.                         1.00       “      1.65
  GRIMM.—Household Stories. Tr. by Crane.     1.00       “      1.70
  HAWTHORNE.—Wonderbook and Tanglewood Tales. 1.00       “      1.70
  HARRIS.—Uncle Remus and His Friends.        1.50       “      2.10
  HARRIS.—Uncle Remus, His Songs and Sayings. 2.00       “      2.45
  KINGSLEY.—Heroes of Greek Fairy Tales.      1.00       “      1.65
  KUPFER.—Legends of Greece and Rome.         0.75       “      1.60
  LAGERLÖF.—Swedish Folk Tales.               1.50       “      2.10
  LANG, Andrew.—True Story Book.              2.00       “      2.45
  MABIE.—Norse Stories Retold from The Eddas. 1.25       “      1.75
  PEABODY.—Old Greek Folk Stories.            0.25       “      1.15
  RAMASWAMI, Raju.—Indian Fables.             1.50       “      2.10
  ROULET-NIXON.—Japanese Folk Stories
          and Fairy Tales.                    0.40       “      1.25
  SCUDDER.—Children’s Book.                   2.50       “      2.85
  STORR.—Half-a-Hundred Hero Tales.           1.35       “      1.95
  WIGGIN & SMITH.—Tales of Laughter.          1.35       “      1.95
  WIGGIN & SMITH.—Tales of Wonder.            1.50       “      1.95
  ZITKALA-SA.—Old Indian Legends.             0.60       “      1.40


V. Fairy Tales—Old and New

  ANDERSEN.—Fairy Tales. Tr. by Mrs. Lucas.   2.50       “      2.85
  ANDERSEN.—Fairy Tales. Vol. I.              0.40       “      1.25
    Vol. II.                                  0.40       “      1.25
  ANDERSEN.—Stories and Tales.                0.30       “      1.20
  ASBJORNSEN.—Fairy Tales from the Far
          North (Burt).                       1.00       “      1.65
  BALDWIN.—Fairy Stories and Fables.          0.35       “      1.25
  BAIN.—Russian Fairy Tales.                  0.00       “      1.65
  BAIN.—Cossack Fairy Tales and Folk Tales.   0.00       “      1.65
  CARY.—Fairy Legends of the French
          Provinces.                          0.60       “      1.45
  CHISHOLM.—In Fairy Land.                    3.00       “      3.30
  COMPTON.—American Indian Fairy Tales.       1.50       “      2.10
  CRAIK.—The Fairy Book.                      0.50       “      1.30
  DOLE.—Russian Fairy Book.                   2.00       “      2.45
  GRIMM.—Fairy Tales. Tr. by Mrs. Lucas.
          Ill. by Arthur Rackham.             1.50       “      2.10
  JACOBS.—Celtic Fairy Tales.                 1.00       “      1.65
  JACOBS.—More Celtic Fairy Tales.            1.25       “      1.85
  JACOBS.—English Fairy Tales.                1.00       “      1.65
  JACOBS.—More English Fairy Tales.           1.25       “      1.85
  JACOBS.—Indian Fairy Tales.                 1.00       “      1.65
  LANG, Andrew.—Blue True Story Book.         2.00       “      2.45
  LANG, Andrew.—Crimson Fairy Book.           1.60       “      2.15
  MACDONNELL.—Italian Fairy Book.             1.35       “      1.90
  OZAKI.—Japanese Fairy Book.                 1.50       “      2.10
  RHYS.—Fairy Gold.                           0.70       “      1.55
  WILLISTON.—Japanese Fairy Tales.            0.75       “      1.55


VI. History, Biography, Travel and Adventure

  ABBOTT.—Daniel Boone.                       1.25       “      1.85
          Christopher Carson, Known as Kit
            Carson.                           1.25       “      1.85
  ABBOTT.—David Crockett.                     1.25       “      1.85
  AMBROSI.—When I was a Girl in Italy.        0.75       “      1.55
  BARNES.—Yankee Ships and Yankee Sailors.    0.50       “      1.30
  BOLTON.—Lives of Poor Boys Who Became
            Famous.                           1.50       “      2.10
  BOYESEN.—Boyhood in Norway.                 1.25       “      1.85
  BROOKS.—Story of Marco Polo.                1.50       “      2.10
  BROOKS.—True Story of Christopher Columbus. 1.50       “      2.10
  BUTTERWORTH.—Zigzag Journeys around
          the World. Per vol.                 1.50       “      2.10
  CARPENTER.—Asia.                            0.60       “      1.45
  CARPENTER.—South America.                   0.60       “      1.45
  CHURCH.—Stories of the East from Herodotus. 1.25       “      1.85
  CUSTER (Mrs).—Boy General. Story of
          the Life of Major-General George
          A. Custer.                          0.50       “      1.40
  DANA.—Two Years Before the Mast
          (University).                       1.00       “      1.65
  DU CHAILLU.—Country of the Dwarfs.          1.25       “      1.85
          Lost in the Jungle.                 1.25       “      1.85
          My Apingi Kingdom.                  1.25       “      1.85
          Stories of the Gorilla Country.     1.25       “      1.85
          Wild Life Under The Equator.        1.25       “      1.85
  DUTTON.—Little Stories of Germany.          0.40       “      1.25
  GARLAND.—Boy Life on the Prairie.           1.50       “      2.10
  GIBSON.—In Eastern Wonder-Lands.            1.50       “      2.10
  GOLDING.—Story of David Livingston.         0.50       “      1.30
  HAWTHORNE.—Biographical Stories.            0.25       “      1.15
  JENKS.—Boy’s Book of Explorations.          2.00       “      2.45
  JOHNSTON AND SPENCER.—Ireland’s Story       1.40       “      2.05
  KINGSLEY.—Westward Ho!                      0.60       “      1.45
  KNOX.—Boy Travellers in Great Britain
          and Ireland.                        2.00       “      2.45
  MABIE.—Heroines Every Child Should Know.    0.50       “      1.30
  MCMANUS.—Our Little Hindu Cousin.           0.60       “      1.40
  MACGREGOR.—Story of France.                 2.50       “      2.85
  PARKMAN.—Oregon Trail.                      0.40       “      1.25
  ROOSEVELT AND LODGE.—Hero Tales
          from American History.              1.50       “      2.10
  ROOSEVELT.—Ranch Life and the Hunting
               Trail.                         2.50       “      2.85
  SCHWATKA.—Children of the Cold.             1.25       “      1.85
  STARR.—American Indians.                    0.45       “      1.30
  TAPPAN.—Story of the Greek People.          1.50       “      2.00
           Story of the Roman People.         1.50       “      2.00
  VAN BERGEN.—Story of Russia.                0.65       “      1.50
  WHITE.—The Magic Forest.                    0.50       “      1.30
  YOUNGE.—Book of Golden Deeds.               1.00       “      1.55


VII. Stories of Humor

  ADELBORG.—Clean Peter.                      1.25       “      1.85
  BAUM.—Father Goose.                         1.25       “      1.85
          Wizard of Oz.                       1.25       “      1.85
  BURGESS.—Goops, and How to be Them.         1.50       “      2.10
  CARROLL.—Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland.  0.60       “      1.45
          Through the Looking Glass.          0.60       “      1.45
  CHAMNEY (Mrs.).—Paddy O’Leary, and
          his Learned Pig.                    1.00       “      1.65
  HALE.—Peterkin Papers.                      1.50       “      2.10
  HARRIS.—Nights with Uncle Remus.            1.50       “      2.10
  LEAR.—Nonsense Songs.                       2.00       “      2.45
  PAINE.—Arkansaw Bear.                       1.00       “      1.65




                  THE NATIONAL STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
          HOME OFFICE: 27 West Twenty-third Street, New York


                               OFFICERS

                      Richard T. Wyche, President
                        27 West 23d St., N. Y.

                  James H. Van Sickle, Vice President
             Superintendent of Schools, Springfield, Mass.

                        R. M. Hodge, Secretary
                       552 West 113th St., N. Y.

                       W. H. Keister, Treasurer
             Superintendent of Schools, Harrisonburg, Va.


       _Origin of the Story Tellers’ League Movement in America_


One time some half a hundred people gathered on a lawn at twilight at
the close of a summer’s day, to tell stories, to sit on the grass, to
relax, rest and commune with those spiritual forces that lie dormant
in literature and in nature until touched by living and creative
personalities. We were a group of teachers attending the Summer School
of the South at the University of Tennessee. Twice a week these
meetings were held with an informal program of stories and the singing
of familiar national melodies. At the close of that session of the
school, numbering over two thousand teachers, a formal organization was
made which afterward became the National Story Tellers’ League. That
was July, 1903, and marked the beginning of the Story Tellers’ League
movement in America.

Since that time the movement has grown until many local leagues have
sprung up all over the United States. The purpose of the whole movement
in a word is the told story, oral literature, with the young people
always in view.




                        STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUES


THE STORYTELLERS’ MAGAZINE publishes for the convenience of those
interested in the story telling movement a finding list of Story
Tellers’ Leagues throughout the United States. Correspondence is
invited in order to supply omissions caused by lack of information so
that the MAGAZINE may be made as complete as possible.

Leagues marked with a * publish Year Books.


ALABAMA

  BIRMINGHAM
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    ——, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—Care J. H. Phillips, Supt. Birmingham Public Schools

  MONTEVALLO
  *ALABAMA GIRLS’ TECHNICAL INSTITUTE STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Myrtle Brooke, _President_
    ——, Cor. _Secretary_
    P. O. Address—Alabama Girls’ Technical Institute, Montevallo, Ala.

  TUSCUMBIA
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Miss Rayner Tillman, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—Care Public Schools, Tuscumbia, Ala.


ARKANSAS

  LITTLE ROCK
  *STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Miss Grace Boyce, _President_
    Miss Dora Hooper, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—Care Superintendent CitySchools, Little Rock, Ark.


COLORADO

  DENVER
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Miss Edwina Fallis, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P.O. Address—637 Franklin St., Denver, Col.


CONNECTICUT

  HARTFORD
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Prof. E. P. St. John, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—Hartford School Religious Pedagogy, Hartford, Conn.


GEORGIA

  ATHENS
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Prof. D. L. Earnest, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—State Normal, Athens, Ga.

  ATLANTA
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Mrs. Charles Goodman, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—Care Milton, Bradley & Co., Atlanta, Ga.

  DALTON
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Mr. J. B. Lucas, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—Supt. City Schools, Dalton, Ga.


ILLINOIS

  BLOOMINGTON
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    ——, _President_
    Mrs. Perry B. Johnson, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—402 West Chestnut St.,
    Bloomington, Ill.

  CARBONDALE
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Miss Fadra R. Holmes, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—State Normal School, Carbondale, Ill.

  CHICAGO
  *STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE, (Chicago Branch Natl. S. T. L.)
    Miss Alice O’Grady, _President_
    Miss Grace Hemingway, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—444 N. Park Ave, Oak Park, Ill.


  DECATUR STORY CLUB
  Miss Laura B. Smith, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—657 W. Main St., Decatur, Ill.

  NORMAL
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE, Normal University
    Frances Foote, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—Normal University, Normal, Ill.

  ROCKFORD
  STORY TELLERS’ CLUB
    ——, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—


IOWA

  DES MOINES
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Miss Jeanette Ezekiels, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—Kindergarten Dept., Drake University, Des Moines, Ia.


KANSAS

  TOPEKA
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Miss Linna E. Bresette, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—506 Polk St., Topeka, Kan.


KENTUCKY

  COVINGTON
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Miss Lily Southgate, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—High School, Covington, Ky.

  FORT THOMAS
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    ——, _President_
    Miss Bessie J. White, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—Southgate Ave., Fort Thomas, Ky.

  LOUISVILLE
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Miss Nannie Lee Frayser, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—University School, Louisville, Ky.

  NEWPORT
  CAMPBELL COUNTY STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    ——, _President_
    Miss Florence Savage, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—36 Home Ave., Newport, Ky.


LOUISIANA

  NEW ORLEANS
  *STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Miss Eleanor Payne, _President_
    Miss Ida Barnett, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—1631 Octavia St., New Orleans, La.

  SHREVEPORT

  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Miss Pearl Fortson, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—High School, Shreveport, La.


MASSACHUSETTS

  WORCESTER
  STORY TELLERS’ CLUB
    Miss Edna Collamore, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—40 Merrick St., Worcester, Mass.


MICHIGAN

  ADRIAN
  *STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    ——, _President_
    Miss Fanny Rich, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—Care Public Library, Adrian, Mich.

  BIG RAPIDS
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE, Ferris Institute Summer School.
    ——, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—Ferris Institute Summer School, Big Rapids, Mich.

  CALUMET
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Mrs. Robert Wetzel, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—Care C. & H. Library, Calumet, Mich.

  DETROIT
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Miss Mary Conover, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—Children’s Room. Public Library,
    Detroit, Mich.


MISSOURI

  ST. JOSEPH
  *ST. JOSEPH STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Miss Martina Martin, _President_
    Miss Georgiana Behne, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—503 Antoine St., St. Joseph, Mo.


MISSISSIPPI

  BLUE MOUNTAIN
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Miss Jennie Hardy, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—Blue Mountain College, Blue Mountain, Miss.

  COLUMBUS
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Miss Rosa B. Knox, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—Normal Institute, Columbus, Miss.


MONTANA

  BOZEMAN
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Mrs. R. J. Cunninghan, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—Bozeman, Mont.

  DILLON
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Miss Florence Mayer, _President_
    Miss Susie Karas, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—State Normal, Dillon, Mont.

  HELENA
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    J. W. Curtis, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—Care City Schools, Helena, Mont.


NEBRASKA

  OMAHA
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    ——, _President_
    Miss Josephine Grant, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—518 Park Ave., Omaha, Neb.
  *WYCHE STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Miss Ida M. Crowell, _President_
    Miss Mary Krebs, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—1332 S. 25th Ave., Omaha, Neb.

  LINCOLN
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE, Nebraska State Teachers’ Association
    Miss Cleland, _President_
    P. O. Address—Lincoln, Neb.


NEW YORK

  BROOKLYN
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Miss Charlotte Savage, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—97 Lawrence St., Brooklyn, N. Y.

  NEW YORK CITY
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Mrs. E. D. Burt, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—500 West 122d St., New York
  INFORMAL FIRESIDE STORY TELLING CIRCLE
    Miss L. A. Palmer, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—235 East 18th St., New York
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE, Y.W.C.A. Training School
    ——, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—

  SYRACUSE
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Miss Maude C. Stewart, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—Care Willard School, Syracuse, N. Y.


OHIO

  CINCINNATI
  *STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Miss Pearl Carpenter, _President_
    Miss L. O’Neill, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—2371 Fairview Ave., Cincinnati, O.

  OXFORD
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Miss Annie Logan, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—Miami University, Oxford, O.

  PIQUA
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Miss Jessie H. Masden, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—Schmidlapp Free Public Library, Piqua, O.


OKLAHOMA

  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Lena Mead, _President_
    P. O. Address—Ponca City, Okla.


PENNSYLVANIA

  PHILADELPHIA
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Prof. F. A. Child, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—Box 38, University Hall, Philadelphia, Pa.


  NORTH EAST
  NORTH EAST STORY TELLING CIRCLE
    Miss Almeda Wells, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—140 W. Main St., North East, Pa.


TENNESSEE

  HARRIMAN
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Miss Inez A. Ayers, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—Public Library, Harriman, Tenn.

  NASHVILLE
  *STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Miss Elizabeth Oehmig, _President_
    Miss Cornelia Barksdale, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—1207 Ordway Place, Nashville, Tenn.


TEXAS

  SAN ANTONIO
  MARK TWAIN STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    ——, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—High School, San Antonio, Tex.

  WACO
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE OF BAYLOR UNIVERSITY SUMMER SCHOOL
    ——, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—Care Prof. W. W. Pelham, Waco, Tex.


VIRGINIA

  HARRISONBURG
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Prof. C. J. Heatwole, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—State Normal School, Harrisonburg, Va.

  RICHMOND
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Miss Lucy Coleman, _President_
    ——, _Secretary_
    P. O. Address—Mechanics Institute, Richmond, Va.


WASHINGTON

  SEATTLE
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Miss Gertrude Andrus, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—Children’s Room, Public Library, Seattle.


WEST VIRGINIA

  GLENVILLE
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Mr. Blaine Engle, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—State Normal School, Glenville, W. Va.

  HINTON
  STORY TELLERS’ LEAGUE
    Mr. R. L. Cole, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—High School, Hinton, W. Va.

  MORGANTOWN
  BEOWULF STORY TELLERS’ CLUB
    Prof. J. H. Cox, _President_
    ——, _Cor. Secretary_
    P. O. Address—West Virginia University,
    Morgantown, W. Va.


                       “JOHNNY CAKE” UP-TO-DATE


                             _Her Dilemma_

MRS. NEWEDD (excitedly)—Oh, John, dear, please hurry and send off a
telegram for me.

NEWEDD—What’s the matter?

MRS. NEWEDD—Why, I’m taking a correspondence course in cooking, and
the cake I made is running all over the oven. I want to telegraph them
quick to find out what to do.—_From the Boston Transcript._




                          BUSINESS DEPARTMENT


Do you believe in fairies? We ask this question because if you do, you
will at once be reminded that all good fairies stand ready upon the
slightest provocation to lend their assistance to a good cause. When
the virtuous Cinderella’s fortunes were at a low ebb the waving of the
fairy wand promptly summoned to her aid a host of cheerful attendants
who worked so industriously in her behalf that she immediately became a
princess and lived happily ever after.

The Storytellers’ Magazine, like the good fairy is interested in the
welfare of the Children, and, also like the good fairy, is waving
its wand to summon a host of workers to its side. At this moment it
is waving its wand directly at _you_. In Fairyland, as you may have
noticed, the cheerful little fairy workers respond immediately to
the waving of the wand, and work most industriously without other
remuneration than the thought of a brave deed well done.

In Storyland, however, the case is quite different. Besides the
consciousness of duty well performed the workers receive a material
compensation for their services. They not only have the honor of
winning subscribers and adherents to the story tellers’ cause, but
the satisfaction of a substantial recognition besides. What is your
reply? Will you come and help us—for a consideration? We need an army
of workers, a veritable fairy host who will make The Storytellers’
Magazine a welcomed guest in every corner of the land. If you will join
forces with us in building up a great subscription list you will aid in
making The Storytellers’ Magazine a _great_ Magazine. If you will but
wave your wand we promise to wave ours.

Every one is interested in the story telling idea, and when you show
that for the modest sum of _eight and three-quarter cents each month_
one may not only be kept in close touch with this great movement,
but enjoy a liberal education in the delightful stories and other
illustrative literature which appear in the columns of the Magazine,
you will be sure to find not only a cordial welcome, but a subscriber
as well.

Send us at once your name and address, and let us know what territory
you will become responsible for, and we will send you the necessary
instructions about getting subscribers.

Do not attempt at first to cover too much territory. It is far better
to cover a small territory thoroughly than a large area half heartedly.
We have in preparation a list of premiums and club combinations which
can be offered in connection with the Magazine. When ready, this list
will be furnished to you and will aid you in getting subscribers.

  Address      BUSINESS MANAGER
  THE STORYTELLERS’ MAGAZINE
  27 West 23d St., New York


                          FORM OF APPLICATION

  BUSINESS MANAGER, STORYTELLERS’ MAGAZINE
  27 WEST TWENTY-THIRD STREET
  NEW YORK

  _Dear Sir: I hereby make application to represent_ THE STORYTELLERS’
  MAGAZINE _as resident agent in the State of_ .........................
  _with headquarters at_ ......................................
                               City or Town
  _in_ ..................... _County_.


  _I should like to have the following territory assigned to me_
   .........................
   (Here describe the Territory, whether
       City, County, State, &c.)

  _If the territory is available, send Terms to Agents, Club
      Subscription Rates and all necessary information to_

  _Name_ ...............................................................

  _Home Address_ .......................................................

  _Post Office_ ........................................ _State_ .......

  _Professional or Business Address is_ ................................

  ......................................................................




                         STORIES FOR CHILDREN


 =TWO LITTLE RUNAWAYS= (_Just Published_)
  Adapted and revised by MELVIN HIX and WALTER L. HERVEY.
  Illustrated. 95 pp. 30 cents.

Snappy and Spitfire are a dog and a cat who become dissatisfied with
their surroundings and decide to run away. Their various adventures
make an amusing and interesting book for children. It was designed
particularly to be used at that important stage when children are ready
to begin the independent practice of the most delightful of all arts,
the art of finding stories in books. The simplicity of plot and general
content are admirably suited to the needs and abilities of six-year-old
readers.

 =INDIAN SKETCHES=
 By CORNELIA STEKETEE HULST. Illustrated. 120 pages. 60 cents.

New material, drawn from the beautiful and heroic stories of the
Northwest Territory, has been worked up with the aim of presenting
the Indian in a much pleasanter and fairer light than is usual in
literature. Social and racial customs, the dances of the various
seasons, etc., are described. Parents and teachers of younger children
will find these “Sketches” interesting and historically accurate.

 =IN OLDEST ENGLAND=
 By GEORGE PHILIP KRAPP. Illustrated. 173 pp. 60 cents.

A collection of well-chosen stories which represent old English life.
Tales of adventure, accounts of battles, vivid descriptions of their
homes and dress, all serve to make real this distant period. The story
of the beginnings of the English people up to the Norman Conquest is
given, and the heroic characters of those times are brought to view in
a setting altogether new.

 =THE MAGIC SPEECH FLOWER=
 By MELVIN HIX. Illustrated. 179 pp. 35 cents.

This is the story of a little boy who was kind to animals, and, because
of his goodness to them, gained the power to understand and to speak
the speech of the animal folk. Thus he hears from them all about their
habits and they tell him many interesting legends of the woods. Most of
the stories are new and they are told in simple language which can be
read by children of eight or nine years of age.

 =HISTORICAL PLAYS OF COLONIAL DAYS=
 By LOUISE E. TUCKER and ESTELLE L.  RYAN. Twenty-six plays. With
 full-page Frontispiece. 163 pp. 65 cents.

This book makes history real by lifting it into a dramatic presentation
faithfully reproducing people and events in colonial times in America.
It teaches history in its pleasantest form. All of the plays have been
acted over and over again by children nine or ten years old. They also
immensely enjoy reading the plays without acting. The average time
required to give each of the plays is about fifteen minutes.


Fairy and Other Story Books by Andrew Lang

  All Sorts of Stories Book       _By Mail_, $1.75; _Net_ $1.60
  Animal Story Book                                        2.00
  Animal Story Book Reader                                  .50
  Arabian Nights                                           2.00
  Blue Fairy Book                                          2.00
  Book of Princes and Princesses  _By Mail_, $1.75; _Net_  1.60
  Book of Romance                 _By Mail_, $1.75; _Net_  1.60
  Book of Saints and Heroes       _By Mail_, $1.75; _Net_  1.60
  Brown Fairy Book                _By Mail_, $1.75; _Net_  1.60
  Crimson Fairy Book              _By Mail_, $1.75; _Net_  1.60
  Green Fairy Book                                         2.00
  Grey Fairy Book                                          2.00
  Lilac Fairy Book                _By Mail_, $1.75; _Net_  1.60
  My Own Fairy Book                                        2.00
  Olive Fairy Book                _By Mail_, $1.75; _Net_  1.60
  Orange Fairy Book               _By Mail_, $1.75; _Net_  1.60
  Pink Fairy Book                                          2.00
  Red Book of Animal Stories                               2.00
  Red Book of Heroes              _By Mail_, $1.75; _Net_  1.60
  Red Book of Romance             _By Mail_, $1.75; _Net_  1.60
  Red Fairy Book                                           2.00
  Red True Story Book                                      2.00
  True Story Book                                          2.60
  Violet Fairy Book               _By Mail_, $1.75; _Net_  1.60
  Yellow Fairy Book                                        2.00


  LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO., Publishers
  Fourth Avenue and 30th Street, New York





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Story Tellers' Magazine, Vol. I,
No. 1, June 1913, by Various

